## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
192. But if they cease, then Allah is Forgiving 
and Merciful.  
193. And fight them until there is no oppres-
sion, and worship becomes devoted to All ah 
alone. But if they cease, then let there be no 
hostility except against the oppressors.  
194. The sacred month for the sacred month; 
and sacrilege calls for retaliation. Whoever 
commits aggression against you, retaliate against him in the same measure as  he has 
committed against you. And be conscious of Allah, and know that Allah is with the right-
eous.  
195. And spend in the cause of Allah, and do 
not throw yourselves with your own hands 
into ruin, and be charitable. Allah loves the 
charitable.  
196. And carry out the Hajj and the Umrah for 
Allah. But if you are prevented, then what-
ever is feasible of offerings. And do not shave your heads until the offering has reached its 
destination. Whoever of you is sick, or has an 
injury of the head, then redemption of  fast-
ing, or charity, or worship. When you are se-
cure: whoever continues the Umrah until the 
Hajj, then whatever is feasible of offering. But 
if he lacks the means, then fasting for three 
days during the Hajj and seven when you 
have returned, making ten in  all. This is for 
he whose household is not present at the Sa-
cred Mosque. And remain conscious of Al-
lah, and know that Allah is stern in retribu-
tion.  
197. The Hajj is during specific months. Who-
ever decides to perform the Hajj— there shall 
be no sexual rela tions, nor misconduct, nor 
quarrelling during the Hajj. And whatever 
good you do, Allah knows it. And take provi-
sions, but the best provision is righteousness. 
And be mindful of Me, O people of under-
standing.  
198. You commit no error by seeking bounty 
from  your Lord. When you disperse from Ar-
afat, remember Allah at the Sacred Land-
mark. And remember Him as He has guided 
you. Although, before that, you were of those 
astray.  199. Then disperse from where the people dis-
perse, and ask Allah for forgiveness. Allah is 
Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.  
200. When you have completed your rites, re-
member Allah as you remember your par-
ents, or even more. Among the people is he 
who says, “Our Lord, give us in this world,” 
yet he has no share in the Hereafter.  
201. And among  them is he who says, “Our 
Lord, give us goodness in this world, and 
goodness in the Hereafter, and protect us 
from the torment of the Fire.”  
202. These will have a share of what they have 
earned. Allah is swift in reckoning.  
203. And remember Allah during  the desig-
nated days. But whoever hurries on in two 
days commits no wrong, and whoever stays on commits no wrong —provided he main-
tains righteousness. And obey Allah, and 
know that to Him you will be gathered.  
204. Among the people is he whose speech 
about the worldly life impresses you, and he 
calls Allah to witness what is in his heart, while he is the most hostile of adversaries.  
205. When he gains power, he strives to spread 
corruption on earth, destroying properties 
and lives. Allah does not like corrup tion.  
206. And when he is told, “Beware of Allah,” 
his pride leads him to more sin. Hell is 
enough for him —a dreadful abode.  
207. And among the people is he who sells 
himself seeking Allah’s approval. Allah is kind towards the servants.  
208. O you who believe! Enter into submission, 
wholeheartedly, and do not follow the foot-
steps of Satan; he is to you an outright enemy.  
209. But if you slip after the proofs have come 
to you, know that Allah is Powerful and Wise.  
210. Are they waiting for Allah Himself to 
come to them in the shadows of the clouds, 
together with the angels, and thus the matter 
is settled? All things are returned to Allah.  
211. Ask the Children of Israel how many clear 
signs We have given them. Whoever alters 
11 
