## 16.  THE BEE   (an-Nahl)  
you, so you can use them when you tra vel, 
and when you camp; and from their wool, 
and fur, and hair, furnishings and comfort 
for a while.  
81. And Allah has made for you shade out of 
what He has created, and has given you re-
sorts in the mountains, and has given you 
garments to protect you from  the heat, and 
garments to protect you from your violence. 
Thus He completes His blessings upon you, 
so that you may submit.  
82. But if they turn away, your only duty is 
clear communication.  
83. They recognize Allah’s blessing, but then 
deny it, as most of  them are ungrateful.  
84. On the Day when We raise up a witness 
from every community —those who disbe-
lieved will not be permitted, nor will they be 
excused.  
85. When those who did wrong see the pun-
ishment, it will not be lightened for them, nor 
will they be reprieved.  
86. And when the idolaters see their associates, 
they will say, “Our Lord, these are our associ-
ates whom we used to invoke besides You.” They will strike back at them with the saying, 
“Surely you are liars.”  
87. On that Day they will offer their submis-
sion to Allah, and what they had invented will 
abandon them.  
88. Those who disbelieve and obstruct from 
Allah’s path— We will add punishment to 
their punishment, on account of the mischief they used to make.  
89. On the Day when We raise in every  com-
munity a witness against them, from among 
them, and bring you as a witness against these. We have revealed to you the Book, as 
an explanation of all things, and guidance, 
and mercy and good news for those who sub-
mit. 
90. Allah commands justice, and goo dness, 
and generosity towards relatives. And He for-bids immorality, and injustice, and oppres-
sion. He advises you, so that you may take 
heed.  
91. Fulfill Allah’s covenant when you make a 
covenant, and do not break your oaths after 
ratifying them. You have made Allah your 
guarantor, and Allah knows what you do.  
92. And do not be like her who unravels her 
yarn, breaking it into pieces, after she has 
spun it strongly. Nor use your oaths as means 
of deception among you, because one com-
munity is more prosperous than another. Al-
lah is testing you thereby. On the Day of Res-
urrection, He will make clear to you every-
thing you had disputed about.  
93. Had Allah willed, He would have made you 
one congregation, but He leaves astray whom 
He wills, and He guides whom He w ills. And 
you will surely be questioned about what you 
used to do.  
94. And do not use your oaths to deceive one 
another, so that a foot may not slip after being 
firm, and you taste misery because you hin-dered from Allah’s path, and incur a terrible 
torment.  
95. And do not exchange Allah’s covenant for 
a small price. What is with Allah is better for 
you, if you only knew.  
96. What you have runs out, but what is with 
Allah remains. We will reward those who are patient according to the best of their deeds.  
97. Whoever works righteousness, whether 
male or female, while being a believer, We 
will grant him a good life —and We will re-
ward them according to the best of what they 
used to do.  
98. When you read the Quran, seek refuge 
with Allah from Satan the outcast.  
99. He has no authority over those who believe 
and trust in their Lord.  
100. His authority is only over those who fol-
low him, and those who associate others with 
Him.  
101. When We substitute a verse in place of an-
other verse —and Allah knows best what He 
100 
