## 38.  SAAD   (Saad)  
Allah ’s path. Those who stray from Allah’s 
path will have a painful punishment, for hav-
ing ignored the Day of Account.”  
27. We did not create the heaven and the earth 
and everything between them in vain. That is 
the assumption of those who disbelieve —so 
woe to those who disbelieve because of the 
Fire.  
28. Or are We to treat those who believe and 
do righteous deeds like those who make trou-
ble on earth? Or are We to treat the pious like 
the shameless?  
29. A blessed Book that We sent down to you, 
that they may pond er its Verses, and for those 
with intelligence to take heed.  
30. And We granted David, Solomon, an ex-
cellent servant. He was penitent.  
31. When the beautiful horses were paraded 
before him in the evening.  
32. He said, “I have preferred the love of nice-
ties to the remembrance of my Lord —until it 
disappeared behind the veil.  
33. Bring them back to me.” And he began ca-
ressing their legs and necks.  
34. We tested Solomon, and placed a body on 
his throne; then he repented.  
35. He said, “My Lord, forgive me, and grant 
me a kingdom never to be attained by anyone after me. You are the Giver.”  
36. So We placed the wind at his service, blow-
ing gently by his command, wherever he di-rected.  
37. And the demons —every builder and diver.  
38. And others fettered in chains.  
39. “This is Our gift; so give generously, or 
withhold; without account.”  
40. For him is nearness to Us, and a beautiful 
resort.  
41. And mention Our servant Job, when he 
called out to his Lord, “Satan has afflicted me 
with hardship and pain.”  
42. “Stamp with your foot— here is cool water 
to wash with, and to drink.”  43. And We restored his family for him, and 
their like with them; as a mercy from Us, and 
a lesson for those who possess insight.  
44. “Take with your hand a bundle, and strike 
with it, and do not br eak your oath.” We 
found him patient. What an excellent serv-ant! He was obedient.  
45. And mention Our servants Abraham, 
Isaac, and Jacob —endowed with ability and 
vision.  
46. We distinguished them with a distinct 
quality: the remembrance of the Home.  
47. To Us they are among the chosen, the out-
standing.  
48. And mention Ishmael, Elisha, and Ezekiel; 
all are among the outstanding.  
49. This is a reminder. The devout will have a 
good place of return.  
50. The Gardens of Eden, with their doors 
wide -open for them.  
51. Relaxing therein, and calling for abundant 
fruit and beverage.  
52. With them will be attendants with modest 
gaze, of same age.  
53. This is what you are promised for the Day 
of Account.  
54. Such is Our bounty, inexhaustible.  
55. All This. But the trans gressors will have a 
miserable return.  
56. Hell; in which they will roast; what a mis-
erable abode!  
57. All this. Let them taste it— boiling and bit-
ter cold.  
58. And similar torments of diverse kinds.  
59. “This is a crowd rushing headlong with 
you.” There is  no welcome for them. They 
will be scorched by the Fire.  
60. They will say, “But it is you! There is no 
welcome for you! It is you who brought it 
upon us! What a miserable end!”  
61. They will say, “Our Lord, whoever brought 
this upon us, give him double to rment in the 
Fire.”  
173 
