## 23.  THE BELIEVERS   (al-Mu’minun)  
78. It is He who produced for you the hearing, 
and the eyesight, and the feelings . But little 
gratitude you show.  
79. And it is He who multiplied you on earth, 
and to Him you will be gathered.  
80. And it is He who gives life and brings 
death, and to Him is the alternation of night 
and day. Do you not understand?  
81. But they say the li ke of what the ancients 
said.  
82. They say, “After we have died, and become 
dust and bones, will we be resurrected?  
83. We were promised this before— we and 
our ancestors —these are nothing but legends 
of the ancients.”  
84. Say, “To whom does the earth belon g, and 
everyone in it, if you happen to know?”  
85. They will say, “To Allah.” Say, “Will you 
not reflect?”  
86. Say, “Who is the Lord of the seven heavens, 
and Lord of the Splendid Throne?”  
87. They will say, “To Allah.” Say, “Will you 
not become righteous?”  
88. Say, “In whose hand is the dominion of all 
things, and He protects and cannot be pro-
tected from, if you happen to know?”  
89. They will say, “To Allah.” Say, “Then are 
you bewitched?”  
90. In fact, We have given them the truth, and 
they are l iars. 
91. Allah has never begotten a son, nor is there 
any god besides Him. Otherwise, each god 
would have taken away what it has created, 
and some of them would have gained su-
premacy over others. Glory be to Allah, far 
beyond what they describe.  
92. The K nower of the hidden and the mani-
fest. He is exalted, far above what they asso-ciate.  
93. Say, “My Lord, if You would show me what 
they are promised.  
94. My Lord, do not place me among the 
wicked people.”  95. We are surely Able to show you what We 
promise th em. 
96. Repel evil by what is better. We are aware 
of what they describe.  
97. And say, “My Lord, I seek refuge with You 
from the urgings of the devils.  
98. And I seek refuge with You, my Lord, lest 
they become present.”  
99. Until, when death comes to one of them, 
he says, “My Lord, send me back.  
100. That I may do right in what I have ne-
glected.” By no means! It is just a word that 
he utters. And behind them is a barrier, until 
the Day they are resurrected.  
101. When the Horn is blown, no relations be-
tween them will exist on that Day, and they 
will not ask after one another.  
102. Those whose scales are heavy —those are 
the successful.  
103. But those whose scales are light —those are 
they who have lost their souls; in Hell they 
will dwell forever.  
104. The Fire lashes their faces, and therein 
they grimace.  
105. “Were not My revelations recited to you, 
and you kept on rejecting them?”  
106. They will say, “Our Lord, our wretched-
ness prevailed over us, and we were a people 
astray.  
107. Our Lord! Bring us out of thi s. If we ever 
returned, we would truly be evil.”  
108. He will say, “Be despised therein, and do 
not speak to Me.  
109. There was a group of My servants who 
would say, `Our Lord, we have believed, so 
forgive us, and have mercy on us; You are the 
Best of the merciful.'  
110. But you made them a target of ridicule, 
until they made you forget My remembrance; and you used to laugh at them.  
111. Today, I have rewarded them for their en-
durance. They are the ones who are the tri-
umphant.”  
129 
