## 21.  THE PROPHETS   (al-Anbiya)  
weight of a mustard -seed, We will bring it up. 
Sufficient are We as Reckoners.  
48. We gave Moses and Aaron the Criterion, 
and illumination, and a reminder for the 
right eous.  
49. Those who fear their Lord in private, and 
are apprehensive of the Hour.  
50. This too is a blessed message that We re-
vealed. Are you going to deny it?  
51. We gave Abraham his integrity formerly, 
and We knew him well.  
52. When he said to his father  and his people, 
“What are these statues to which you are de-
voted?”  
53. They said, “We found our parents wor-
shiping them.” 
54. He said, “You and your parents are in evi-
dent error.”  
55. They said, “Are you telling us the truth, or 
are you just playing?”  
56. He said, “Your Lord is the Lord of the 
heavens and the earth, the One who created 
them, and I bear witness to that.  
57. “By Allah, I will have a plan for your statues 
after you have gone away.”  
58. So he reduced them into pieces, except for 
their biggest,  that they may return to it.  
59. They said, “Who did this to our gods? He 
is certainly one of the wrongdoers.”  
60. They said, “We heard a youth mentioning 
them. He is called Abraham.”  
61. They said, “Bring him before the eyes of the 
people, so that they ma y witness.”  
62. They said, “Are you the one who did this to 
our gods, O Abraham?”  
63. He said, “But it was this biggest of them 
that did it. Ask them, if they can speak.”  
64. Then they turned to one another, and said, 
“You yourselves are the wrongdoers.”  
65. But they reverted to their old ideas: “You 
certainly know that these do not speak.”  66. He said, “Do you worship, instead of Allah, 
what can neither benefit you in anything, nor 
harm you?  
67. Fie on you, and on what you worship in-
stead of Allah. Do you  not understand?”  
68. They said, “Burn him and support your 
gods, if you are going to act.”  
69. We said, “O fire, be coolness and safety 
upon Abraham.”  
70. They planned to harm him, but We made 
them the worst losers.  
71. And We delivered him, and Lot, to t he land 
that We blessed for all people.  
72. And We granted him Isaac and Jacob as a 
gift; and each We made righteous.  
73. And We made them leaders, guiding by 
Our command; and We inspired them to do 
good works, and to observe the prayer, and to 
give out charity. They were devoted servants 
to Us.  
74. And Lot— We gave him judgment and 
knowledge, and We delivered him from the 
town that practiced the abominations. They 
were wicked and perverted people.  
75. And We admitted him into Our mercy; for 
He was one of th e righteous.  
76. And Noah, when he called before. So We 
answered him, and delivered him and his 
family from the great disaster.  
77. And We supported him against the people 
who rejected Our signs. They were an evil 
people, so We drowned them all.  
78. And David and Solomon, when they gave 
judgment in the case of the field, when some people’s sheep wandered therein by night; 
and We were witnesses to their judgment.  
79. And so We made Solomon understand it, 
and to each We gave wisdom and knowledge. 
And We subje cted the mountains along with 
David to sing Our praises, and the birds as 
well—surely We did.  
80. And We taught him the making of shields 
for you, to protect you from your violence. 
Are you, then, appreciative?  
121 
