## 30.  THE ROMANS   (ar-Rum)  
18. His is the praise in the heavens and on 
earth, and in the evening, and when you 
reach midday.  
19. He brings the living out of the dead, and He 
brings the dead out of the living, and He re-
vives the land after it had died. Likewise you 
will be resur rected.  
20. And of His signs is that He created you 
from dust; and behold, you become humans 
spreading out.  
21. And of His signs is that He created for you 
mates from among yourselves, so that you 
may find tranquility in them; and He planted love and compa ssion between you. In this are 
signs for people who reflect.  
22. And of His signs is the creation of the heav-
ens and the earth, and the diversity of your 
languages and colors. In this are signs for 
those who know.  
23. And of His signs are your sleep by nig ht 
and day, and your pursuit of His bounty. In 
this are signs for people who listen.  
24. And of His signs is that He shows you the 
lightning, causing fear and hope. And He 
brings down water from the sky, and with it He revives the earth after it was dead. In this 
are signs for people who understand.  
25. And of His signs is that the heaven and the 
earth stand at His disposal. And then, when He calls you out of the earth, you will emerge 
at once.  
26. To Him belongs everyone in the heavens 
and the earth. All a re submissive to Him.  
27. It is He who initiates creation, and then re-
peats it, something easy for Him. His is the 
highest attribute, in the heavens and the 
earth. He is the Almighty, the Wise.  
28. He illustrates an example for you, from 
your own selves: d o you make your servants 
full partners in the wealth We have given 
you? Do you revere them as you revere one 
another? We thus explain the revelations for 
a people who understand.  
29. Yet the wrongdoers follow their desires 
without knowledge. But who can gu ide whom Allah leaves astray? They will have no 
helpers.  
30. So devote yourself to the religion of mono-
theism —the natural instinct Allah has in-
stilled in mankind. There is no altering Al-
lah’s creation. This is the true religion, but most people do not know . 
31. Turning towards Him —and be conscious 
of Him, and perform the prayer, and do not 
be of the idolaters.  
32. Of those who divided their religion, and 
became sects; each faction pleased with what they have.  
33. When affliction touches the people, they 
call on their Lord, turning to Him in repent-
ance. But then, when He gives them a taste of 
His mercy, some of them attribute partners to 
their Lord.  
34. To show ingratitude for what We have 
given them. Indulge yourselves —you will 
surely know.  
35. Have We sent down to them any authority, 
which speaks in support of their idols?  
36. When We give people a taste of mercy, they 
rejoice in it. But when adversity befalls them, 
because of what their hands have perpetrated, 
they begin to despair.  
37. Do they not see that Allah expands the pro-
vision for whomever He wills, or restricts it? 
Surely in this are signs for people who be-
lieve.  
38. So give the relative his rights, and the des-
titute, and the wayfarer. That is best for those 
who seek Allah’s presence. Those are the 
prosperous.  
39. The usury you practice, seeking thereby to 
multiply people’s wealth, will not multiply 
with Allah. But what you give in charity, de-siring Allah’s approval —these are the multi-
pliers.  
40. Allah is He who created you, then provides 
for you, then makes you die, then brings you 
back to life. Can any of your idols do any of 
that? Glorified is He, and Exalted above what 
they associate.  
153 
