## 28.  HISTORY   (al-Qasas)  
18. The next morning, he went about in the 
city, fearful and vigilant, when the man who 
had sought his assistance the day before was 
shouting out to him. Moses said to him, “You 
are clearly a troublemaker.”  
19. As he was about to strike the one who was 
their enemy, he said, “O Moses, do you in-
tend to kill me, as you killed someone yester-
day? You only want to be a bully in the land, and do not want to be a peacemaker.”  
20. And a man came from the farthest part of 
the city running. He said, “O Moses, the au-
thorities are considering killing you, so leave; I am giving you good advice.”  
21. So he left, fearful and vigilant. He said, “My 
Lord, deliver me from the wrongdoing peo-
ple.”  
22. As he headed towards Median, he said, 
“Perhaps my Lord will guide me t o the right 
way.”  
23. And when he arrived at the waters of Me-
dian, he found there a crowd of people draw-
ing water, and he noticed two women waiting 
on the side. He said, “What is the matter with 
you?” They said, “We cannot draw water un-
til the shepherds de part, and our father is a 
very old man.”  
24. So he drew water for them, and then with-
drew to the shade, and said, “My Lord, I am 
in dire need of whatever good you might send 
down to me.”  
25. Then, one of the two women approached 
him, walking bashfully. She  said, “My father 
is calling you, to reward you for drawing wa-
ter for us.” And when he came to him, and 
told him the story, he said, “Do not fear, you 
have escaped from the wrongdoing people.”  
26. One of the two women said, “Father, hire 
him; the best empl oyee for you is the strong 
and trustworthy.”  
27. He said, “I want to marry you to one of 
these two daughters of mine, provided you work for me for eight years. But if you com-plete ten, that is up to you. I do not intend to 
impose any hardship on you. You w ill find 
me, Allah willing, one of the righteous.”  28. He said, “Let this be an agreement between 
you and me. Whichever of the two terms I 
fulfill, there shall be no reprisal against me; 
and Allah is witness over what we say.”  
29. When Moses had completed the term, and 
departed with his family, he noticed a fire by 
the side of the Mount. He said to his family, 
“Stay here, I have glimpsed a fire. Perhaps I 
can bring you some information from there, 
or an ember from the fire, that you may warm 
yourselves.”  
30. When he reached it, he was called from the 
right side of the valley, at the Blessed Spot, 
from the bush: “O Moses, it is I, Allah, the 
Lord of the Worlds.  
31. Throw down your staff.” And when he saw 
it wiggling, as if it were possessed, he turned 
his bac k to flee, and did not look back. “O 
Moses, come forward, and do not fear, you 
are perfectly safe.  
32. Put your hand inside your pocket, and it 
will come out white, without blemish. And 
press your arm to your side, against fear. These are two proofs from y our Lord, to 
Pharaoh and his dignitaries. They are truly 
sinful people.”  
33. He said, “My Lord, I have killed one of 
them, and I fear they will kill me.  
34. And my brother Aaron, he is more elo-
quent than me, so send him with me, to help 
me, and to confirm my words, for I fear they 
will reject me.”  
35. He said, “We will strengthen your arm with 
your brother, and We will give you authority, 
so they will not touch you. By virtue of Our signs, you and those who follow you will be 
the triumphant.”  
36. But when Moses came to them with Our 
signs, clear and manifest, they said, “This is nothing but fabricated magic, and We never 
heard of this from our ancestors of old.”  
37. Moses said, “My Lord is well aware of him 
who brings guidance from Him, and him 
who will hav e the sequel of the abode. The 
wrongdoers will not succeed.”  
146 
