## 33.  THE CONFEDERATES   (al-Ahzab)  
31. But whoever of you remains obedient to 
Allah and His Messenger, and acts right-
eously, We will give her a double reward; and 
We have prepared for her a generous provi-
sion.  
32. O wives of the Prophet! You are not like 
any other women, if you observe piety. So do 
not speak too softly, lest the sick at heart lusts 
after you, but speak in an appropriate man-ner. 
33. And settle in your homes; and do not dis-
play yourselves, as in the former days of igno-
rance. And  perform the prayer, and give reg-
ular charity, and obey Allah and His Messen-
ger. Allah desires to remove all impurity from you, O People of the Household, and to pu-
rify you thoroughly.  
34. And remember what is recited in your 
homes of Allah's revelations a nd wisdom. Al-
lah is Kind and Informed.  
35. Muslim men and Muslim women, believ-
ing men and believing women, obedient men and obedient women, truthful men and truthful women, patient men and patient 
women, humble men and humble women, 
charitable men and char itable women, fast-
ing men and fasting women, men who guard 
their chastity and women who guard, men 
who remember Allah frequently and women 
who remember —Allah has prepared for 
them a pardon, and an immense reward.  
36. It is not for any believer, man or woma n, 
when Allah and His Messenger have decided a matter, to have liberty of choice in their de-
cision. Whoever disobeys Allah and His Mes-
senger has gone far astray.  
37. When you said to him whom Allah had 
blessed, and you had favored, “Keep your 
wife to yours elf, and fear Allah.” But you hid 
within yourself what Allah was to reveal. And 
you feared the people, but it was Allah you 
were supposed to fear. Then, when Zaid 
ended his relationship with her, We gave her 
to you in marriage, that there may be no re-
stric tion for believers regarding the wives of 
their adopted sons, when their relationship has ended. The command of Allah was ful-
filled.  
38. There is no blame on the Prophet regard-
ing what Allah has ordained for him. Such is 
the pattern of Allah among those wh o passed 
before. The command of Allah is an absolute 
decree.  
39. Those who deliver the messages of Allah, 
and fear Him, and never fear anyone except 
Allah. Allah is sufficient as a reckoner.  
40. Muhammad is not the father of any of your 
men; but he is the Messenger of Allah, and 
the seal of the prophets. Allah is Cognizant of 
everything.  
41. O you who believe, remember Allah with 
frequent remembrance.  
42. And glorify Him morning and evening.  
43. It is He who reaches out to you, and His 
angels, to bring you out of darkness into the 
light. And He is Ever -Merciful towards the 
believers.  
44. Their greeting on the Day they meet Him 
is, “Peace,” and He has prepared for them a generous reward.  
45. O prophet! We have sent you as a witness, 
and a bearer of good news,  and a warner.  
46. And a caller towards Allah by His leave, 
and an illuminating beacon.  
47. And give the believers the good news that 
for them is a great reward.  
48. And do not obey the blasphemers and the 
hypocrites, and ignore their insults, and rely on Allah. Allah is a sufficient protector.  
49. O you who believe! When you marry be-
lieving women, but then divorce them before 
you have touched them, there is no waiting 
period for you to observe in respect to them; 
but compensate them, and release them in a  
graceful manner.  
50. O Prophet! We have permitted to you your 
wives to whom you have given their dowries, and those you already have, as granted to you 
by Allah, and the daughters of your paternal 
uncle, and the daughters of your paternal 
159 
