## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
10. As for those who disbelieve, neither their 
wealth nor their children will avail them any-
thing against Allah. These wi ll be fuel for the 
Fire.  
11. Like the behavior of Pharaoh’s people and 
those before them. They rejected Our signs, 
so Allah seized them for their sins. Allah is 
Strict in retribution.  
12. Say to those who disbelieve, “You will be 
defeated, and rounded up i nto Hell —an aw-
ful resting -place.”  
13. There was a sign for you in the two parties 
that met. One party fighting in the way of Al-
lah, and the other was disbelieving. They saw 
them with their own eyes twice their number. 
But Allah supports with His help whome ver 
He wills. In that is a lesson for those with in-sight.  
14. Adorned for the people is the love of de-
sires, such as women, and children, and piles 
upon piles of gold and silver, and branded 
horses, and livestock, and fields. These are 
the conveniences of the worldly life, but with 
Allah lies the finest resort.  
15. Say, “Shall I inform you of something bet-
ter than that? For those who are righteous, 
with their Lord are Gardens beneath which rivers flow, where they will remain forever, 
and purified spouses, and acceptance from 
Allah.” Allah is Observant of the servants.  
16. Those who say, “Our Lord, we have be-
lieved, so forgive us our sins, and save us 
from the suffering of the Fire.”  
17. The patient, and the truthful, and the rev-
erent, and the charitable, and  the seekers of 
forgiveness at dawn.  
18. Allah bears witness that there is no god but 
He, as do the angels, and those endowed with 
knowledge —upholding justice. There is no 
god but He, the Mighty, the Wise.  
19. Religion with Allah is Islam. Those to 
whom the Scripture was given differed only after knowledge came to them, out of envy among themselves. Whoever rejects the signs 
of Allah— Allah is quick to take account.  20. If they argue with you, say, “I have surren-
dered myself to Allah, and those who follow 
me.” And say to those who were given the 
Scripture, and to the unlearned, “Have you 
surrendered?” If they have surrendered, then 
they are guided; but if they turn away, then 
your duty is to convey. Allah is Seeing of the 
servants.  
21. As for those who defy Allah’s revelations, 
and kill the prophets unjustly, and kill those 
who advocate justice among the people—
promise them a painful retribution.  
22. They are those whose deeds will come to 
nothing, in this world and in the Hereafter; and they will have no savi ors. 
23. Have you not considered those who were 
given a share of the Scripture, as they were 
called to the Scripture of Allah to arbitrate be-
tween them; then some of them turned back, 
and declined?  
24. That is because they said, “The Fire will not 
touch us  except for a limited number of 
days.” They have been misled in their religion 
by the lies they fabricated.  
25. How about when We gather them for a 
Day in which there is no doubt, and each soul 
will be paid in full for what it has earned, and 
they will not be wronged?  
26. Say, “O Allah, Owner of Sovereignty. You 
grant sovereignty to whom You will, and You 
strip sovereignty from whom you will. You honor whom you will, and You humiliate 
whom you will. In Your hand is all goodness. 
You are Capable of all thing s.” 
27. “You merge the night into the day, and 
You merge the day into the night; and you 
bring the living out of the dead, and You 
bring the dead out of the living; and You pro-
vide for whom you will without measure.”  
28. Believers are not to take disbeliev ers for 
friends instead of believers. Whoever does 
that has nothing to do with Allah, unless it is to protect your own selves against them. Al-
lah warns you to beware of Him. To Allah is 
the destiny.  
18 
