## 17.  THE NIGHT JOURNEY   (al-Isra’)  
to Hell, where he will roast, condemned and 
defeated.  
19. But whoever desires t he Hereafter, and 
pursues it as it should be pursued, while he is 
a believer; these —their effort will be appreci-
ated.  
20. To all —these and those —We extend from 
the gifts of your Lord. The gifts of your Lord 
are not restricted.  
21. See how We have favored s ome of them 
over others; yet the Hereafter is greater in 
ranks, and greater in favors.  
22. Do not set up another god with Allah, lest 
you become condemned and damned.  
23. Your Lord has commanded that you wor-
ship none but Him, and that you be good to 
your p arents. If either of them or both of 
them reach old age with you, do not say to 
them a word of disrespect, nor scold them, 
but say to them kind words.  
24. And lower to them the wing of humility, 
out of mercy, and say, “My Lord, have mercy 
on them, as they raised me when I was a 
child.”  
25. Your Lord knows best what is in your 
minds. If you are righteous —He is Forgiving 
to the obedient.  
26. And give the relative his rights, and the 
poor, and the wayfarer, and do not squander 
wastefully.  
27. The extravagant are brethren of the devils, 
and the devil is ever ungrateful to his Lord.  
28. But if you turn away from them, seeking 
mercy from your Lord which you hope for, then say to them words of comfort.  
29. And do not keep your hand tied to your 
neck, nor spread it out fully, lest you end up 
liable and regretful.  
30. Your Lord expands the provision for 
whomever He wills, and restricts it. He is 
fully Informed, Observant of His servants.  
31. And do not kill your children for fear of 
poverty. We provide for them, and f or you. 
Killing them is a grave sin.  32. And do not come near adultery. It is im-
moral, and an evil way.  
33. And do not kill the soul which Allah has 
made sacred, except in the course of justice. 
If someone is killed unjustly, We have given 
his next of kin certain authority. But he 
should not be excessive in killing, for he will 
be supported.  
34. And do not go near the orphan’s property, 
except with the best of intentions, until he has 
reached his maturity. And honor your 
pledge, because the pledge involves responsi-
bility.  
35. And give full measure when you measure, 
and weigh with accurate scales. That is fair, 
and the best determination.  
36. And do not occupy yourself with what you 
have no knowledge of. The hearing, and the 
sight, and the brains —all these will be ques-
tioned.  
37. And do not walk proudly on earth. You can 
neither pierce the earth, nor can you match 
the mountains in height.  
38. The evil of all these is disliked by your 
Lord.  
39. That is some of the wisdom your Lord has 
revealed to you. Do not set up with Allah an-
other god, or else you will be thrown in Hell, 
rebuked and banished.  
40. Has your Lord favored you with sons, 
while choosing for Himself daughters from 
among the angels? You are indeed saying a 
terrible thing.  
41. We have explained in t his Quran in various 
ways, that they may remember, but it only 
adds to their rebellion.  
42. Say, “If there were other gods with Him, as 
they say, they would have sought a way to the 
Lord of the Throne.”  
43. Be He glorified. He is exalted, far above 
what th ey say.  
44. Praising Him are the seven heavens, and 
the earth, and everyone in them. There is not 
a thing that does not glorify Him with praise, 
103 
