## 36.  YA-SEEN   (Ya-Seen)  
3. You are one of the messengers.  
4. On a straight path.  
5. The revelation of the Almighty, the Merci-
ful. 
6. To warn a people whose ancestors were not 
warned, and so they are unaware.  
7. The Word was realized against most of 
them, for they do not believe.  
8. We placed shackles around their necks, up 
to their chins, so they are stiff -necked.  
9. And We placed a barrier in front of them, 
and a barrier behind them, and We have en-
shrouded them, so they cannot see.  
10. It is the same for them, whether you warn 
them, or do not warn them —they will not be-
lieve.  
11. You warn only  him who follows the Mes-
sage, and fears the Most Gracious inwardly. 
So give him good news of forgiveness, and a 
generous reward.  
12. It is We who revive the dead; and We write 
down what they have forwarded, and their 
traces. We have tallied all things in a Clear 
Record.  
13. And cite for them the parable of the land-
lords of the town —when the messengers 
came to it.  
14. We sent them two messengers, but they de-
nied them both, so We reinforced them with 
a third. They said, “We are messengers to 
you.”  
15. They sa id, “You are nothing but humans 
like us, and the Gracious did not send down anything; you are only lying.”  
16. They said, “Our Lord knows that we are 
messengers to you.  
17. And our only duty is clear communica-
tion.”  
18. They said, “We see an evil omen in you; if 
you do not give up, we will stone you, and a 
painful punishment from us will befall you.”  19. They said, “Your evil omen is upon you. Is 
it because you were reminded? But you are an 
extravagant people.”  
20. Then a man came running from the remot-
est part of the city. He said, “O my people, 
follow the messengers.  
21. Follow those who ask you of no wage, and 
are themselves guided.  
22. “And why should I not worship Him Who 
created me, and to Whom you will be re-
turned?  
23. Shall I take other gods instead  of Him? If 
the Merciful desires harm for me, their inter-
cession will not avail me at all, nor will they 
save me.  
24. In that case, I would be completely lost.  
25. I have believed in your Lord, so listen to 
me.”  
26. It was said, “Enter Paradise.” He said,  “If 
only my people knew.  
27. How my Lord has forgiven me, and made 
me one of the honored.”  
28. After him, We sent down no hosts from 
heaven to his people; nor would We ever send any down.  
29. It was just one Cry, and they were stilled.  
30. Alas for the se rvants. No messenger ever 
came to them, but they ridiculed him.  
31. Have they not considered how many gen-
erations We destroyed before them; and that unto them they will not return?  
32. All of them, every single one of them, will 
be arraigned before Us.  
33. And there is a sign for them in the dead 
land: We give it life, and produce from it grains from which they eat.  
34. And We place in it gardens of palm -trees 
and vines, and cause springs to gush out of it.  
35. That they may eat from its fruits, although  
their hands did not make it. Will they not be appreciative?  
166 
