## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
237. If you divorce them before you have 
touched them, but after you had set the 
dowry for them, give them half of what you 
specified —unless they forego the right, or the 
one in whose hand is the marriage contract  
foregoes it. But to forego is nearer to piety. 
And do not forget generosity between one 
another. Allah is seeing of everything you do.  
238. Guard your prayers, and the middle 
prayer, and stand before Allah in devotion.  
239. But if you are in fear, then on  foot, or rid-
ing. And when you are safe, remember Allah, as He taught you what you did not know.  
240. Those of you who die and leave wives be-
hind —a will shall provide their wives with 
support for a year, provided they do not 
leave. If they leave, you are n ot to blame for 
what they do with themselves, provided it is 
reasonable. Allah is Mighty and Wise.  
241. And divorced women shall be provided 
for, equitably —a duty upon the righteous.  
242. Allah thus explains His revelations to you, 
so that you may understand.  
243. Have you not considered those who fled 
their homes, by the thousands, fearful of 
death? Allah said to them, “Die.” Then He re-
vived them. Allah is Gracious towards the 
people, but most people are not appreciative.  
244. Fight in the cause of  Allah, and know that 
Allah is Hearing and Knowing.  
245. Who is he who will offer Allah a generous 
loan, so He will multiply it for him manifold? 
Allah receives and amplifies, and to Him you 
will be returned.  
246. Have you not considered the notables of 
the Children of Israel after Moses? When 
they said to a prophet of theirs, “Appoint a king for us, and we will fight in the cause of 
Allah.” He said, “Is it possible that, if fighting 
was ordained for you, you would not fight?” 
They said, “Why would we not f ight in the 
cause of Allah, when we were driven out of our homes, along with our children?” But 
when fighting was ordained for them, they 
turned away, except for a few of them. But Al-
lah is aware of the wrongdoers.  247. Their prophet said to them, “Allah has ap-
pointed Saul to be your king.” They said, 
“How can he have authority over us, when we 
are more worthy of authority than he, and he 
was not given plenty of wealth?” He said, “Al-
lah has chosen him over you, and has in-
creased him in knowledge and stature .” Allah 
bestows His sovereignty upon whomever He wills. Allah is Embracing and Knowing.  
248. And their prophet said to them, “The 
proof of his kingship is that the Ark will be restored to you, bringing tranquility from 
your Lord, and relics left by the fa mily of Mo-
ses and the family of Aaron. It will be carried 
by the angels. In that is a sign for you, if you 
are believers.”  
249. When Saul set out with the troops, he said, 
“Allah will be testing you with a river. Who-
ever drinks from it does not belong wit h me. 
But whoever does not drink from it, does be-
long with me, except for whoever scoops up 
a little with his hand.” But they drank from it, 
except for a few of them. Then, when he 
crossed it, he and those who believed with him, they said, “We have no stre ngth to face 
Goliath and his troops today.” But those who knew that they would meet Allah said, “How 
many a small group has defeated a large 
group by Allah’s will. Allah is with the stead-
fast.”  
250. And when they confronted Goliath and 
his troops, they sai d, “Our Lord, pour down 
patience on us, and strengthen our foothold, and support us against the faithless people.”  
251. And they defeated them by Allah’s leave, 
and David killed Goliath, and Allah gave him 
sovereignty and wisdom, and taught him as 
He willed. Were it not for Allah restraining 
the people, some by means of others, the 
earth would have gone to ruin. But Allah is 
gracious towards mankind.  
252. These are Allah’s revelations, which We 
recite to you in truth. You are one of the mes-
sengers.  
253. These messengers: We gave some ad-
vantage over others. To some of them Allah spoke directly, and some He raised in rank. 
14 
