## 39.  THRONGS   (az-Zumar)  
formations, in a triple darkness. Such is Al-
lah, your Lord. His is the kingdom. There is 
no god but He. So what made you deviate?  
7. If you disbelieve, Allah is Independent of 
you, yet He does not approve ingratitude on 
the part of His servants. And if you are thank-
ful, He will approve that in you. No bearer of 
burden can bear the burden of another. Then 
to your Lord is your return; and He will in-
form you of what you used to do. He is aware 
of w hat the hearts contain.  
8. When some adversity touches the human 
being, he prays to his Lord, repenting to Him. 
But then, when He confers on him a grace of 
His, he forgets what he was praying for be-
fore, and he attributes rivals to Allah, in order 
to lead astray from His way. Say, “Enjoy your 
disbelief for a little while; you will be among 
the inmates of the Fire.”  
9. Is he who worships devoutly during the 
watches of the night, prostrating himself and 
standing up, mindful of the Hereafter, and placing his h ope in the mercy of his Lord? 
Say, “Are those who know and those who do not know equal?” Only those possessed of 
reason will remember.  
10. Say, “O My devotees who have believed, 
keep your duty to your Lord. For those who 
do good in this world, is goodness.  And Al-
lah’s earth is vast. The steadfast will be paid their wages in full, without reckoning.”  
11. Say, “I was commanded to serve Allah, de-
voting my religion exclusively to Him.  
12. And I was commanded to be the first of 
those who submit.”  
13. Say, “I fear, if I disobeyed my Lord, the 
punishment of a horrendous Day.”  
14. Say, “It is Allah I worship, sincere in my 
faith in Him.”  
15. “But you can worship whatever you wish 
besides Him.” Say, “The losers are those who 
lose their souls and their people on the D ay 
of Resurrection.” That is indeed the obvious 
loss.  16. They will have layers of Fire above them, 
and layers beneath them. That is how Allah 
strikes fear into His servants —“O My serv-
ants! Beware of Me!”  
17. As for those who avoid the worship of 
idols, and devote themselves to Allah— theirs 
is the good news. So give good news to My 
servants.  
18. Those who listen to the Word, and follow 
the best of it. These are they whom Allah has 
guided. These are they who possess intellect.  
19. What about someone who has deserved the 
sentence of punishment? Is it you who can 
save those in the Fire?  
20. But those who fear their Lord will have 
mansions upon mansions, built high, with 
streams flowing beneath them. The promise of Allah; and Allah never breaks a promise.  
21. Have you not considered how Allah sends 
down water from the sky, then He makes it 
flow into underground wells, then He pro-duces with it plants of various colors, then 
they wither and you see them yellowing, then 
He turns them into debris? Surely in this is a  
reminder for those with understanding.  
22. What about someone whose heart Allah 
has opened to Islam, so that he follows a light from His Lord? Woe to those whose hearts are hardened against the mention of Allah. Those are in manifest error.  
23. Allah has sent down the best of narrations: 
a Scripture consistent and paired. The skins 
of those who reverence their Lord shiver 
from it, then their skins and their hearts sof-
ten up to the remembrance of Allah. Such is 
Allah’s guidance; He guides with it whom-
ever H e wills. But whomever Allah leaves 
astray, for him there is no guide.  
24. What about someone who covers his face 
against the terrible misery of the Day of Res-urrection? To the evildoers it will be said, 
“Taste what you used to earn.”  
25. Those before them also denied the truth, so 
the penalty came upon them from where they 
did not perceive.  
175 
