## 39.  THRONGS   (az-Zumar)  
50. Those before them said it, but what they 
had earned did not avail them.  
51. The evils of their deeds caught up with 
them. And the wrongdoers among these will 
also be afflicted by the evils of what they 
earned, and they cannot prevent it.  
52. Do they not know that Allah extends the 
provision to whomever He wills, and con-
stricts it? In that are signs for people who be-
lieve.  
53. Say, “O My servants who have transgressed 
against themselves: do not despair of Allah’s 
mercy, for Allah forgives all sins. He is indeed 
the Forgiver, the Clement.”  
54. And turn to your Lord, and  submit to Him, 
before the retribution comes upon you. Then you will not be helped.  
55. And follow the best of what was revealed to 
you from your Lord, before the punishment 
comes upon you suddenly, while you are un-
aware.  
56. So that a soul may not say, “H ow sorry I 
am, for having neglected my duty to Allah, 
and for having been of the scoffers.”  
57. Or say, “Had Allah guided me; I would 
have been of the pious.”  
58. Or say, when it sees the penalty, “If only I 
had another chance, I would be of the virtu-ous.”  
59. Yes indeed! My Verses did come to you, 
but you called them lies, turned arrogant, and 
were of the faithless.  
60. On the Day of Resurrection, you will see 
those who told lies about Allah with their 
faces blackened. Is there not a place in Hell 
for the arrogant?  
61. And Allah will save those who maintained 
righteousness to their place of salvation. No harm will touch them, nor will they grieve.  
62. Allah is the Creator of all things, and He is 
in Charge of all things.  
63. To Him belong the reins of the h eavens 
and the earth. But those who blaspheme against the revelations of Allah— it is they 
who are the losers.  
64. Say, “Is it other than Allah you instruct me 
to worship, you ignorant ones?”  
65. It was revealed to you, and to those before 
you, that if you idolize, your works will be in 
vain, and you will be of the losers.  
66. Rather, worship Allah, and be of the appre-
ciative.  
67. They have not esteemed Allah as He ought 
to be esteemed. The entire earth will be in His 
grip on the Day of Resurrection, and the  
heavens will be folded in His right. Immacu-
late is He, and Transcendent He is beyond the 
associations they make.  
68. And the Trumpet will be sounded, where-
upon everyone in the heavens and the earth 
will be stunned, except whomever Allah wills. Then it wi ll be sounded another time, where-
upon they will rise up, looking on.  
69. And the earth will shine with the Light of 
its Lord; and the Book will be put in place; 
and the prophets and the witnesses will be 
brought in; and Judgment will be passed 
among them e quitably, and they will not be 
wronged.  
70. And every soul will be fully compensated 
for what it had done. He is well aware of what 
they do.  
71. Those who disbelieved will be driven to 
Hell in throngs. Until, when they have 
reached it, and its gates are op ened, its keep-
ers will say to them, “Did not messengers 
from among you come to you, reciting to you 
the revelations of your Lord, and warning 
you of the meeting of this Day of yours?” 
They will say, “Yes, but the verdict of punish-
ment is justified against the disbelievers.”  
72. It will be said, “Enter the gates of Hell, to 
abide therein eternally.” How wretched is the 
destination of the arrogant.  
73. And those who feared their Lord will be led 
to Paradise in throngs. Until, when they have 
reached it, and it s gates are opened, its keep-
ers will say to them, “Peace be upon you, you 
177 
