## 41.  DETAILED   (Fussilat)  
6. Say, “I am only a human like you; it is in-
spired in me that your God is One God. So be 
upright towards Him, and seek forgiveness 
from Him.” And woe to the idolaters.  
7. Those who do not pay the alms; and regard-
ing the Hereafter, they are disbelievers.  
8. As for those who believe and do righteous 
deeds —for them is a reward uninterrupted.  
9. Say, “Do you reject the One who created the 
earth in two days? And you attribute equals 
to Him? That is the Lord of the Universe.”  
10. He placed stabilizers over it; and blessed it; 
and planned its provisions in four days, equally to the seekers.  
11. Then He turned to the sky, and it was 
smoke, and sa id to it and to the earth, “Come, 
willingly or unwillingly.” They said, “We come willingly.”  
12. So He completed them as seven universes 
in two days, and He assigned to each universe 
its laws. And We decorated the lower uni-
verse with lamps, and for protect ion. That is 
the design of the Almighty, the All -Knowing.  
13. But if they turn away, say, “I have warned 
you of a thunderbolt, like the thunderbolt of 
Aad and Thamood.”  
14. Their messengers came to them, from be-
fore them and from behind them, saying, “Do 
not worship anyone but Allah.” They said, 
“Had our Lord willed, He would have sent 
down angels; Therefore, we reject what you 
are sent with.”  
15. As for Aad, they turned arrogant on earth, 
and opposed justice, and said, “Who is more 
powerful than us?” Have they not considered 
that Allah, who created them, is more power-
ful than they? And they went on denying Our 
revelations.  
16. So We unleashed upon them a screaming 
wind, for a few miserable days, to make them 
taste the punishment of shame in this life; but the punishment of the Hereafter is more 
shameful; and they will not be saved.  
17. And as for Thamood, We guided them, but 
they preferred blindness over guidance. So the thunderbolt of the humiliating punish-
ment seized them, because of what they used 
to earn . 
18. And We saved those who believed and 
were righteous.  
19. The Day when Allah’s enemies are herded 
into the Fire, forcibly.  
20. Until, when they have reached it, their 
hearing, and their sight, and their skins will testify against them regarding what th ey used 
to do.  
21. And they will say to their skins, “Why did 
you testify against us?” They will say, “Allah, Who made all things speak, made us speak. It is He who created you the first time, and to 
Him you are returned.”  
22. You were unable to hide yours elves from 
your hearing, and your sight, and your skins, to prevent them from testifying against you, 
and you imagined that Allah was unaware of 
much of what you do.  
23. It is that thought of yours about your Lord 
that led you to ruin —so you became of the 
losers.  
24. If they endure patiently, the Fire will be 
their residence; and if they make up excuses, they will not be pardoned.  
25. We had assigned companions for them, 
who glamorized to them what was in front of 
them, and what was behind them. And the Wor d proved true against them in communi-
ties of jinn and humans that have passed 
away before them. They were losers.  
26. Those who disbelieve say, “Do not listen to 
this Quran, and talk over it, so that you may 
prevail.”  
27. We will make those who disbelieve taste an 
intense agony, and We will recompense them according to the worst of what they used to 
do. 
28. Such is the recompense of Allah’s ene-
mies —the Fire— where they will have their 
permanent home, in recompense for having disregarded Our revelations.  
182 
