## 24.  THE LIGHT   (an-Nur)  
punishment, in this life and in the Hereafter. 
Allah knows, and you do not know.  
20. Were it not for Allah’s grace upon you, and 
His mercy, and that Allah is Clement and 
Merciful.  
21. O you who believe! Do not follow Satan’s 
footsteps. Whoever follows Satan’s foot-
steps —he advocates obscenity and immoral-
ity. Were it not for Allah’s grace towards you, 
and His mercy, not one of you would have 
been pure, ever. But Allah purifies whomever 
He wills. Allah is All- Hearing, All -Knowing.  
22. Those of you who have affluence and 
means should not refuse to give to the rela-
tives, and the needy, and the emigrants for 
the sake of Allah. And let them pardon, and 
let them overlook. Do you not love for Allah 
to pardon you? Allah is All -Forgiving, Most 
Merciful.  
23. Those who slander honorable, innocent, 
believing women are cursed in this life and in 
the Hereafter. They will have a terrible pun-
ishment.  
24. On the Day when their tongues, and their 
hands, and their feet will testify against them 
regarding what they used to do.  
25. On that Day, Allah will pay them their ac-
count in full, and they will know that Allah is 
the Evident Reality.  
26. Bad women are for bad men, and bad men 
are for bad women, and good women are for 
good men, and good men are for good women. Those are acquitted of what they say. 
There is forgiveness for them, and a generous 
provision.  
27. O you who believe! Do not enter h omes 
other than your own, until you have asked 
permission and greeted their occupants. That 
is better for you, that you may be aware.  
28. And if you find no one in them, do not en-
ter them until you are given permission. And 
if it is said to you, “Turn back ,” then turn 
back. That is more proper for you. Allah is 
aware of what you do.  29. There is no blame on you for entering un-
inhabited houses, in which are belongings of 
yours. Allah knows what you reveal and what 
you conceal.  
30. Tell the believing men to r estrain their 
looks, and to guard their privates. That is 
purer for them. Allah is cognizant of what 
they do.  
31. And tell the believing women to restrain 
their looks, and to guard their privates, and 
not display their beauty except what is appar-
ent thereo f, and to draw their coverings over 
their breasts, and not expose their beauty ex-
cept to their husbands, their fathers, their 
husbands' fathers, their sons, their husbands' 
sons, their brothers, their brothers' sons, their 
sisters' sons, their women, what their right 
hands possess, their male attendants who have no sexual desires, or children who are 
not yet aware of the nakedness of women. 
And they should not strike their feet to draw 
attention to their hidden beauty. And repent 
to Allah, all of you believ ers, so that you may 
succeed.  
32. And wed the singles among you, and those 
who are fit among your servants and maids. 
If they are poor, Allah will enrich them from 
His bounty. Allah is All -Encompassing, All -
Knowing.  
33. And let those who do not find the me ans to 
marry abstain, until Allah enriches them from His bounty. If any of your servants wish to be freed, grant them their wish, if you rec-
ognize some good in them. And give them of 
Allah’s wealth which he has given you. And 
do not compel your girls to pr ostitution, 
seeking the materials of this life, if they desire 
to remain chaste. Should anyone compel 
them —after their compulsion, Allah is For-
giving and Merciful.  
34. We have sent down to you clarifying reve-
lations, and examples of those who passed on 
before you, and advice for the righteous.  
35. Allah is the Light of the heavens and the 
earth. The allegory of His light is that of a pil-
lar on which is a lamp. The lamp is within a glass. The glass is like a brilliant planet, fueled 
131 
