## 18.  THE CAVE   (al-Kahf)  
but then it becomes debris, scattered by the 
wind. Allah has absolute power over every-
thing.  
46. Wealth and children are the adornments of 
the present life. But the things that last, the 
virtuous deeds, are better with your Lord for 
reward, and better for hope.  
47. On the Day when We set the mountains in 
motion; and you see the earth emerging; and 
We gather them together, and leave none of 
them behind.  
48. They will be presented before your Lord in 
a row. “Yo u have come to Us as We created 
you the first time. Although you claimed We would not set a meeting for you.”  
49. And the book will be placed, and you will 
see the sinners fearful of its contents. And 
they will say, “Woe to us! What is with this 
book that leaves nothing, small or big, but it 
has enumerated it?” They will find everything 
they had done present. Your Lord does not 
wrong anyone.  
50. We said to the angels, “Bow down to 
Adam.” So they bowed down, except for Sa-
tan. He was of the jinn, and he defied the 
command of his Lord. Will you take him and 
his offspring as lords instead of Me, when 
they are an enemy to you? Evil is the ex-
change for the wrongdoers.  
51. I did not call them to witness the creation 
of the heavens and the earth, nor their own 
creation; and I do not take the misleaders for 
assistants.  
52. On the Day when He will say, “Call on My 
partners whom you have claimed.” They will call on them, but they will not answer them. 
And We will place between them a barrier.  
53. And the sinners will s ee the Fire, and will 
realize that they will tumble into it. They will 
find no deliverance from it.  
54. We have elaborated in this Quran for the 
people every kind of example, but the human 
being is a most argumentative being.  
55. What prevented people from  accepting 
faith, when guidance has come to them, and from seeking their Lord’s forgiveness? Unless 
they are waiting for the precedent of the an-
cients to befall them, or to have the punish-
ment come upon them face to face.  
56. We send the messengers only as  deliverers 
of good news and warners. Those who disbe-
lieve argue with false argument, in order to 
defeat the truth thereby. They take My 
Verses, and the warnings, for a joke.  
57. Who does greater wrong than he, who, 
when reminded of his Lord’s revelations,  
turns away from them, and forgets what his 
hands have put forward? We have placed 
coverings over their hearts, lest they under-
stand it, and heaviness in their ears. And if 
you call them to guidance, they will not be 
guided, ever.  
58. Your Lord is the Forg iver, Possessor of 
Mercy. Were He to call them to account for 
what they have earned, He would have has-
tened the punishment for them. But they 
have an appointment from which they will 
find no escape.  
59. And these towns —We destroyed them 
when they committed  injustices, and We set 
for their destruction an appointed time.  
60. Recall when Moses said to his servant, “I 
will not give up until I reach the junction of 
the two rivers, even if it takes me years.”  
61. Then, when they reached the junction be-
tween them,  they forgot about their fish. It 
found its way into the river, slipping away.  
62. When they went further, he said to his 
servant, “Bring us our lunch; we were ex-
posed in our travel to much fatigue.”  
63. He said, “Do you remember when we 
rested by the rock? I forgot about the fish. It 
was only the devil who made me forget it. 
And so it found its way to the river, amaz-
ingly.”  
64. He said, “This is what we were seeking.” 
And so they turned back retracing their steps.  
65. Then they came upon a servant of O urs, 
whom We had blessed with mercy from Us, 
109 
