## 23.  THE BELIEVERS   (al-Mu’minun)  
15. Then, after that, you will die.  
16. Then, on the Day of Resurrection, you will 
be resurrected.  
17. We created above you seven pathways, and 
We are never heedless of the creation.  
18. And We sent down water from the sky in 
proper quantity, and settled it in the ground, 
and We are Able to take it away.  
19. With it We produce for you garde ns of 
palms and vines, yielding abundant fruit for you to eat.  
20. And a tree springing out of Mount Sinai, 
producing oil, and seasoning for those who 
eat. 
21. And there is a lesson for you in livestock: 
We give you to drink from what is in their bellies, and you have many benefits in them, 
and from them you eat.  
22. And on them, and on the ships, you are 
transported.  
23. We sent Noah to his people. He said, “O 
my people, worship Allah, you have no deity other than Him. Will you not take heed?”  
24. But the notables of his people, who disbe-
lieved, said, “This is nothing but a human like you, who wants to gain superiority over you. 
Had Allah willed, He would have sent down 
angels. We never heard of this from our fore-
fathers of old.  
25. He is nothing but a man possessed. Just ig-
nore him for a while.”  
26. He said, “My Lord, help me, for they have 
rejected me.”  
27. So We inspired him: “Build the Ark under 
Our observation and by Our inspiration. And 
when Our decree comes to pass, and the oven 
boils over, load into  it two pairs of every kind, 
together with your family, except those of 
them against whom the word has already 
been pronounced. And do not speak to me 
concerning those who did wrong; for they are to be drowned.”  28. Then, when you and those with you are se t-
tled in the Ark, say, “Praise be to Allah, who has saved us from the wrongdoing people.”  
29. And say, “My Lord, land me with a blessed 
landing, as you are the best of transporters.”  
30. Surely in that are signs. We are always test-
ing. 
31. Then, after them, We established another 
generation.  
32. And We sent among them a messenger 
from themselves: “Serve Allah. You have no 
god other than Him. Will you not be cau-
tious?”  
33. But the dignitaries of his people, those who 
disbelieved and denied the meeting of  the 
Hereafter, and We had indulged them in the 
present life, said, “This is nothing but a hu-
man like you; he eats what you eat, and he 
drinks what you drink.  
34. If you obey a human being like yourselves, 
then you will be losers.  
35. Does he promise you t hat when you have 
died and become dust and bones, you will be 
brought out?  
36. Farfetched, farfetched is what you are 
promised.  
37. There is nothing but our life in this world. 
We die, and we live, and we are not resur-rected.  
38. He is nothing but a man, m aking up lies 
about Allah. We have no faith in him.”  
39. He said, “My Lord, help me, for they have 
rejected me.”  
40. He said, “Soon they will be filled with re-
gret.”  
41. Then the Blast struck them, justifiably, and 
We turned them into scum. So away with the wicked people.  
42. Then, after them, We raised other genera-
tions.  
43. No nation can advance its time, nor can 
they postpone it.  
127 
