## 18.  THE CAVE   (al-Kahf)  
23. And never say about anything, “I will do 
that tomorrow.”  
24. Without saying, “If Allah wills.” And re-
member your Lo rd if you forget, and say, 
“Perhaps my Lord will guide me to nearer 
than this in integrity.”  
25. And they stayed in their cave for three hun-
dred years, adding nine.  
26. Say, “Allah knows best how long they 
stayed.” His is the mystery of the heavens and 
the earth. By Him you see and hear. They 
have no guardian apart from Him, and He 
shares His Sovereignty with no one.  
27. And recite what was revealed to you from 
the Book of your Lord. There is no changing 
His words, and you will find no refuge except 
in Him.  
28. And content yourself with those who pray 
to their Lord morning and evening, desiring 
His Presence. And do not turn your eyes 
away from them, desiring the glitter of this 
world. And do not obey him whose heart We 
have made heedless of Our remembrance —
so he follows his own desires —and his prior-
ities are confused.  
29. And say, “The truth is from your Lord. 
Whoever wills —let him believe. And who-
ever wills —let him disbelieve”. We have pre-
pared for the unjust a Fire, whose curtains 
will hem them in. And when  they cry for re-
lief, they will be relieved with water like mol-
ten brass, which scalds the faces. What a mis-
erable drink, and what a terrible place.  
30. As for those who believe and lead a right-
eous life— We will not waste the reward of 
those who work right eousness.  
31. These will have the Gardens of Eden, be-
neath which rivers flow. Reclining on com-
fortable furnishings, they will be adorned 
with bracelets of gold, and will wear green 
garments of silk and brocade. What a won-
derful reward, and what an excellent resting -
place.  
32. And cite for them the parable of two men. 
To one of them We gave two gardens of vine, and We surrounded them with palm -trees, 
and We placed between them crops.  
33. Both gardens produced their harvest in 
full, and suffered no lo ss. And We made a 
river flow through them.  
34. And thus he had abundant fruits. He said 
to his friend, as he conversed with him, “I am 
wealthier than you, and greater in man-
power.”  
35. And he entered his garden, wronging him-
self. He said, “I do not think t his will ever per-
ish.”  
36. “And I do not think the Hour is coming. 
And even if I am returned to my Lord, I will find something better than this in return.”  
37. His friend said to him, as he conversed 
with him, “Are you being ungrateful to Him 
who created y ou from dust, then from a 
sperm -drop, then evolved you into a man?  
38. But as for me, He is Allah, my Lord, and I 
never associate with my Lord anyone.  
39. When you entered your garden, why did 
you not say, “As Allah wills; there is no power 
except through Allah”? Although you see me 
inferior to you in wealth and children.  
40. Perhaps my Lord will give me something 
better than your garden, and release upon it thunderbolts from the sky, so it becomes bar-
ren waste.  
41. Or its water will sink into the ground, a nd 
you will be unable to draw it.”  
42. And ruin closed in on his crops, and so he 
began wringing his hands over what he had 
invested in it, as it lays fallen upon its trellises. 
And he was saying, “I wish I never associated 
anyone with my Lord.”  
43. He had  no faction to help him besides Al-
lah, and he was helpless.  
44. That is because authority belongs to Allah, 
the True. He is Best in rewarding, and Best in requiting.  
45. And cite for them the parable of the pre-
sent life: it is like water that We send down 
from the sky; the plants of the earth absorb it; 
108 
