## 36.  YA-SEEN   (Ya-Seen)  
have provided for them, secretly and pub-
licly, expect a trade that will not fail.  
30. He will pay them their dues in full, and will 
increase them from His bounty. He is Forgiv-
ing and Appreciative.  
31. What We inspired in you, of the Book, is 
the truth, confirming what preceded it. Allah 
is Well -Informed of His servants, All -Seeing . 
32. Then We passed the Book to those of Our 
servants whom We chose. Some of them wrong their souls, and some follow a middle 
course, and some are in the foremost in good 
deeds by Allah’s leave; that is the greatest 
blessing.  
33. The Gardens of Eden, whic h they will en-
ter. They will be adorned therein with gold 
bracelets and pearls, and their garments 
therein will be of silk.  
34. And they will say, “Praise Allah, who has 
lifted all sorrow from us. Our Lord is Most Forgiving, Most Appreciative.  
35. He Who settled us in the Home of Perma-
nence, by His grace, where boredom will not 
touch us, and fatigue will not afflict us.”  
36. As for those who disbelieve, for them is the 
Fire of Hell, wherein they will never be fin-ished off and die, nor will its punishment b e 
lightened for them. Thus We will repay every 
ingrate.  
37. And they will scream therein, “Our Lord, 
let us out, and we will act righteously, differ-
ently from the way we used to act.” Did We 
not give you a life long enough, in which an-
yone who wanted to un derstand would have 
understood? And the warner did come to 
you. So taste. The evildoers will have no 
helper.  
38. Allah is the Knower of the future of the 
heavens and the earth. He knows what the 
hearts contain.  
39. It is He who made you successors on earth . 
Whoever disbelieves, his disbelief will recoil 
upon him. The disbelief of the disbelievers 
adds only to their Lord's disfavor of them. The disbelief of the disbelievers adds only to 
their perdition.  
40. Say, “Have you considered those partners 
of yours that you worship instead of Allah? 
Show me what they have created on earth. Or 
do they have any share in the heavens?” Or 
have We given them a book whose clear 
teachings they follow? In fact, the wrongdo-ers promise one another nothing but delu-
sions.  
41. Allah holds the heavens and the earth, lest 
they fall apart. And were they to fall apart, there is none to hold them together except 
He. He is Most Clement, Most Forgiving.  
42. And they swore by Allah with their solemn 
oaths, that if a warner came to them, they 
would be more guided than any other people. 
Yet when a warner came to them, it only in-
creased them in aversion.  
43. Priding themselves on earth, and scheming 
evil. But evil scheming overwhelms none but 
its authors. Do they expect anything but the 
preced ent of the ancients? You will not find 
any change in Allah’s practice, and you will not find any substitute to Allah’s practice.  
44. Have they not journeyed in the land and 
observed the fate of those who preceded 
them? They were superior to them in 
strengt h. But nothing can defeat Allah in the 
heavens or on Earth. He is indeed Omnisci-
ent and Omnipotent.  
45. If Allah were to punish the people for what 
they have earned, He would not leave a single 
living creature on its surface. But He defers them until a stated time. Then, when their 
time has arrived —Allah is Observant of His 
creatures.  
  
36. YA- SEEN  
(Ya-Seen ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Ya, Seen.  
2. By the Wise Quran.  
165 
