## 17.  THE NIGHT JOURNEY   (al-Isra’)  
but you do not understand their praises. He 
is indeed Forbearing and Forgiving.  
45. When you read the Quran, We  place be-
tween you and those who do not believe in 
the Hereafter an invisible barrier.  
46. And We drape veils over their hearts, pre-
venting them from understanding it, and 
heaviness in their ears. And when you men-
tion your Lord alone in the Quran, they tur n 
their backs in aversion.  
47. We know well what they listen to, when 
they listen to you, as they conspire, when the wrongdoers say, “You only follow a man be-
witched.”  
48. Note what they compared you to. They are 
lost, and unable to find a way.  
49. And they say, “When we have become 
bones and fragments, shall we really be resur-rected as a new creation?”  
50. Say, “Even if you become rocks or iron.  
51. Or some substance, which, in your minds, 
is even harder.” Then they will say, “Who will 
restore us?” Say,  “The One who originated 
you the first time.” Then they will nod their 
heads at you, and say, “When will it be?” Say, 
“Perhaps it will be soon.”  
52. On the Day when He calls you, you will re-
spond with His praise, and you will realize 
that you stayed only a  little.  
53. Tell My servants to say what is best. Satan 
sows discord among them. Satan is to man an 
open enemy.  
54. Your Lord knows you best. If He wills, He 
will have mercy on you; and if He wills, He 
will punish you. We did not send you as their 
advocate.  
55. Your Lord knows well everyone in the 
heavens and the earth. We have given some 
prophets advantage over others; and to David 
We gave the Psalms.  
56. Say, “Call upon those you claim besides 
Him. They have no power to relieve your ad-versity, nor can t hey change it.” 57. Those they call upon are themselves seek-
ing means of access to their Lord, vying to be 
nearer, and hoping for His mercy, and fear-
ing His punishment. The punishment of your 
Lord is to be dreaded.  
58. There is no city but We will destroy before 
the Day of Resurrection, or punish it with a 
severe punishment. This is inscribed in the 
Book.  
59. Nothing prevents Us from sending mirac-
ulous signs, except that the ancients called 
them lies. We gave Thamood the she -camel, 
a visible sign, but they mistreated her. We do 
not send the signs except to instill reverence.  
60. We said to you that your Lord encom-
passes humanity. We did not make the vision We showed you, except as a test for the peo-
ple, and the tree cursed in the Quran. We 
frighten them, but that only increases their 
defiance.  
61. When We said to the angels, “Bow down 
before Adam,” they bowed down, except for Satan. He said, “Shall I bow down before 
someone You created from mud?”  
62. He said, “Do You see this one whom You 
have honored more than me? If You reprieve 
me until the Day of Resurrection, I will bring his descendants under my sway, except for a few.”  
63. He said, “Begone! Whoever of them fol-
lows you —Hell is your reward, an ample re-
ward.”  
64. “And entice whomever of them you can 
with your voice, and rally against them your 
cavalry and your infantry, and share with them in wealth and children, and make 
promises to them.” But Satan promises them 
nothing but delusion.  
65. “As for My devotees, you have no authority 
over them.” Your Lord is  an adequate Guard-
ian. 
66. Your Lord is He who propels for you the 
ships at sea, that you may seek of His bounty. 
He is towards you Most Merciful.  
104 
