## 41.  DETAILED   (Fussilat)  
Lord; and I was commanded to submit to the 
Lord of the Worlds.”  
67. It is He who created you from dust, then 
from a seed, then from an embryo, then He 
brings you out as an infant, then He lets you 
reach your maturity, then you become el-
derly—although some of you die sooner —so 
that you may reach a predetermined age, so 
that you may understand.  
68. It is He who gives life and death; and when 
He decides on a thing, He just says to it, “Be,” and it comes to be.  
69. Have you not observed those who dispute 
regarding Allah's revelations, how they have 
deviated?  
70. Those who call the Book a lie, and what We 
sent Our messengers with —they will surely 
know.  
71. When the yokes are around their necks, 
and they will be dragged by the chains.  
72. Into th e boiling water, then in the Fire they 
will be consumed.  
73. Then it will be said to them, “Where are 
those you used to deify?  
74. Instead of Allah?” They will say, “They 
have abandoned us. In fact, we were praying 
to nothing before.” Thus Allah sends the dis-
believers astray.  
75. That is because you used to rejoice on earth 
in other than the truth, and because you used to behave with vanity.  
76. Enter the gates of Hell, to remain therein 
forever. What a terrible dwelling for the arro-
gant.  
77. So be patient.  The promise of Allah is true. 
Whether We show you some of what We have promised them, or take you to Us, to Us 
they will be returned.  
78. We sent messengers before you. Some of 
them We told you about, and some We did 
not tell you about. No messenger can b ring a 
miracle except by leave of Allah. Then, when the command of Allah is issued, fair judg-
ment will be passed, and there and then the seekers of vanity will lose.  79. Allah is He who created the domestic ani-
mals for you —some for you to ride, and some 
you eat.  
80. And in them you have other benefits as 
well, and through them you satisfy your 
needs. And on them, and on the ships, you 
are transported.  
81. And He shows you His signs. So which of 
Allah’s signs will you deny?  
82. Have they not journeyed throug h the land, 
and seen the outcome for those before them? 
They were more numerous than they, and 
had greater power and influence in the land. 
But what they had achieved availed them 
nothing.  
83. When their messengers came to them with 
clear proofs, they rejo iced in the knowledge 
they had, and the very things they used to rid-icule besieged them.  
84. Then, when they witnessed Our might, 
they said, “We believe in Allah alone, and we 
reject what we used to associate with Him.”  
85. But their faith could not help them once 
they witnessed Our might. This has been Al-
lah’s way of dealing with His servants. And 
there and then the disbelievers lost.  
  
41. DETAILED  
(Fussilat ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Ha, Meem.  
2. A revelation from the Most Gracious, the 
Most Merciful.  
3. A Scripture whose Verses are detailed, a 
Quran in Arabic for people who know.  
4. Bringing good news, and giving warnings. 
But most of them turn away, so they do not 
listen.  
5. And they say, “Our hearts are screened 
from what you call us to, and in our ears is 
deafness, and between us and you is a barrier. 
So do what you want, and so will we.”  
181 
