## 21.  THE PROPHETS   (al-Anbiya)  
20. They praise night and day, without ever tir-
ing. 
21. Or have they taken to themselves gods 
from the earth who resurrect?  
22. If there were in them gods other than Al-
lah, they  would have gone to ruin. So glory be 
to Allah, Lord of the Throne, beyond what 
they allege.  
23. He will not be questioned about what He 
does, but they will be questioned.  
24. Or have they taken, besides Him, other 
gods? Say, “Bring your proof. This is a m es-
sage for those with me, and a message of those before me.” But most of them do not 
know the truth, so they turn away.  
25. We never sent a messenger before you 
without inspiring him that: “There is no god 
but I, so worship Me.”  
26. And they say, “The Most  Merciful has 
taken to himself a son.” Be He glorified; they 
are but honored servants.  
27. They never speak before He has spoken, 
and they only act on His command.  
28. He knows what is before them, and what is 
behind them; and they do not intercede ex-
cept for him whom He approves; and they 
tremble in awe of Him.  
29. And whoever of them says, “I am a god be-
sides Him,” We will reward him with Hell. 
Thus We reward the wrongdoers.  
30. Do the disbelievers not see that the heavens 
and the earth were one mass, and  We tore 
them apart? And We made from water every 
living thing. Will they not believe?  
31. And We placed on earth stabilizers, lest it 
sways with them, and We placed therein 
signposts and passages, that they may be 
guided.  
32. And We made the sky a protected ceiling; 
yet they turn away from its wonders.  
33. It is He who created the night and the day, 
and the sun and the moon; each floating in an 
orbit.  34. We did not grant immortality to any hu-
man being before you. Should you die, are 
they then the immorta l? 
35. Every soul will taste death. We burden you 
with adversity and prosperity —a test. And to 
Us you will be returned.  
36. When those who disbelieve see you, they 
treat you only with ridicule: “Is this the one who mentions your gods?” And they reject 
the mention of the Merciful.  
37. The human being was created of haste. I 
will show you My signs, so do not seek to rush Me. 
38. And they say, “When will this promise 
come true, if you are truthful?”  
39. If those who disbelieve only knew, when 
they cannot keep the fire off their faces and 
off their backs, and they will not be helped.  
40. In fact, it will come upon them suddenly, 
and bewilder them. They will not be able to 
repel it, and they will not be reprieved.  
41. Messengers before you were also ridiculed, 
but those who jeered were surrounded by 
what they had ridiculed.  
42. Say, “Who guards you against the Merciful 
by night and by day?” But they turn away 
from the mention of their Lord.  
43. Or do they have gods who can defend them 
against Us? They cannot help themselves, nor 
will they be protected from Us.  
44. We have given these enjoyments, and their 
ancestors, until time grew long upon them. Do they not see how We gradually reduce the 
land from its extremities? Are they then the 
victors?  
45. Say, “I am warning you through inspira-
tion.” But the deaf cannot hear the call when 
they are being warned.  
46. And when a breath of your Lord’s punish-
ment touches them, they say, “Woe to us, we were truly wicked.”  
47. We will set up the scales of justice for the 
Day of Resurrection, so that no soul will suf-
fer the least injustice. And even if it be the 
120 
