## 20.  TA-HA  (Ta-Ha) 
44. But speak to him nicely. Perhaps he will re-
member, or have some fear.”  
45. They said, “Lord, we fear he may persecute 
us, or become violent.”  
46. He said, “Do not fear, I am with you, I hear 
and I see.  
47. Approach him and say, `We a re the mes-
sengers of your Lord; so let the Children of 
Israel go with us, and do not torment them. 
We bring you a sign from your Lord, and 
peace be upon him who follows guidance.  
48. It was revealed to us that the punishment 
falls upon him who disbelieves and turns 
away.'“  
49. He said, “Who is your Lord, O Moses.”  
50. He said, “Our Lord is He who gave every-
thing its existence, then guided it.” 
51. He said, “What about the first genera-
tions?”  
52. He said, “Knowledge thereof is with my 
Lord, in a Book. My Lor d never errs, nor does 
He forget.”  
53. He who made the earth a habitat for you; 
and traced in it routes for you; and sent down 
water from the sky, with which We produce 
pairs of diverse plants.  
54. Eat and pasture your livestock. In that are 
signs for thos e with understanding.  
55. From it We created you, and into it We will 
return you, and from it We will bring you out 
another time.  
56. We showed him Our signs, all of them, but 
he denied and refused.  
57. He said, “Did you come to us to drive us 
out of our land with your magic, O Moses?  
58. We will produce for you magic like it; so 
make an appointment between us and you, 
which we will not miss —neither us, nor 
you—in a central place.”  
59. He said, “Your appointment is the day of 
the festival, so let the peopl e be gathered to-
gether at mid -morning.”  60. Pharaoh turned away, put together his 
plan, and then came back.  
61. Moses said to them, “Woe to you. Do not 
fabricate lies against Allah, or He will destroy 
you with a punishment. He who invents lies 
will fail.”  
62. They disagreed among themselves over 
their affair, and conferred secretly.  
63. They said, “These two are magicians who 
want to drive you out of your land with their 
magic, and to abolish your exemplary way of 
life. 
64. So settle your plan, and come as one front. 
Today, whoever gains the upper hand will 
succeed.”  
65. They said, “O Moses, either you throw, or 
we will be the first to throw.”  
66. He said, “You throw.” And suddenly, their 
ropes and sticks appeared to him, because of their magic, to be crawli ng swiftly.  
67. So Moses felt apprehensive within himself.  
68. We said, “Do not be afraid, you are the up-
permost.  
69. Now throw down what is in your right 
hand —it will swallow what they have crafted. 
What they have crafted is only a magician’s 
trickery. Bu t the magician will not succeed, 
no matter what he does.”  
70. And the magicians fell down prostrate. 
They said, “We have believed in the Lord of 
Aaron and Moses.”  
71. He said, “Did you believe in him before I 
have given you permission? He must be your chief, who has taught you magic. I will cut off 
your hands and your feet on alternate sides, and I will crucify you on the trunks of the 
palm -trees. Then you will know which of us 
is more severe in punishment, and more last-
ing.”  
72. They said, “We will not prefer you to the 
proofs that have come to us, and Him who 
created us. So issue whatever judgment you 
wish to issue. You can only rule in this lowly 
life. 
116 
