## 20.  TA-HA  (Ta-Ha) 
73. We have believed in our Lord, so that He 
may forgive us our sins, and the magic you 
have compelled u s to practice. Allah is Better, 
and more Lasting.”  
74. Whoever comes to his Lord guilty, for him 
is Hell, where he neither dies nor lives.  
75. But whoever comes to Him a believer, hav-
ing worked righteousness —these will have 
the highest ranks.  
76. The Garde ns of Perpetuity, beneath which 
rivers flow, dwelling therein forever. That is 
the reward for him who purifies himself.  
77. And We inspired Moses: “Travel by night 
with My servants, and strike for them a dry path across the sea, not fearing being over-
taken, nor worrying.”  
78. Pharaoh pursued them with his troops, but 
the sea overwhelmed them, and completely 
engulfed them.  
79. Pharaoh misled his people, and did not 
guide them.  
80. O Children of Israel! We have delivered 
you from your enemy, and promised you by 
the right side of the Mount, and sent down to 
you manna and quails.  
81. Eat of the good things We have provided 
for you, but do not be excessive therein, lest My wrath descends upon you. He upon 
whom My wrath descends has fallen.  
82. And I am Forgiving towards him who re-
pents, believes, acts righteously, and then re-
mains guided.  
83. “And what made you rush ahead of your 
people, O Moses?”  
84. He said, “They are following in my foot-
steps; and I hurried on to You, my Lord, that you may be pleased.”  
85. He s aid, “We have tested your people in 
your absence, and the Samarian misled 
them.”  
86. So Moses returned to his people, angry and 
disappointed. He said, “O my people, did 
your Lord not promise you a good promise? 
Was the time too long for you? Or did you want wrath from your Lord to descend upon 
you, so you broke your promise to me?”  
87. They said, “We did not break our promise 
to you by our choice, but we were made to 
carry loads of the people’s ornaments, and we 
cast them in. That was what the Samarian sugg ested.”  
88. So he produced for them a calf —a mere 
body which lowed. And they said, “This is 
your god, and the god of Moses, but he has 
forgotten.”  
89. Did they not see that it cannot return a 
word to them, and has no power to harm 
them or benefit them?  
90. Aaron had said to them before, “O my peo-
ple, you are being tested by this. And your 
Lord is the Merciful, so follow me, and obey 
my command.”  
91. They said, “We will not give up our devo-
tion to it, until Moses returns to us.”  
92. He said, “O Aaron, what prevented you, 
when you saw them going astray.  
93. From following me? Did you disobey my 
command?”  
94. He said, “Son of my mother, do not seize 
me by my beard or my head. I feared you 
would say, `You have caused division among the Children of Israel, and d id not regard my 
word.'“  
95. He said, “What do you have to say, O Sa-
marian?”  
96. He said, “I saw what they did not see, so I 
grasped a handful from the Messenger’s 
traces, and I flung it away. Thus my soul 
prompted me.”  
97. He said, “Begone! Your lot in th is life is to 
say, ‘No contact.’ And you have an appoint-
ment that you will not miss. Now look at your 
god that you remained devoted to— we will 
burn it up, and then blow it away into the sea, as powder.”  
98. Surely your god is Allah, the One besides 
whom there is no other god. He compre-
hends everything in knowledge.  
117 
