## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
225. Allah does not hold you responsible for 
your unintentional oaths, but He holds you 
responsible for your intentions. Allah is For-
giving and Forbearing.  
226. Those who vow abstinence from their 
wives must wait for four months. But if they 
reconcile— Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
227. And if they resolve to divorce —Allah is 
Hearing and Knowing.  
228. Divorced women shall wait by themselves 
for three periods. And it is not lawful for 
them to conceal what Allah has created in 
their wombs, if they believe in Allah and the 
Last Day. Meanwhile, their husbands have 
the better right to take them back, if they de-
sire reconciliation. And women have rights 
similar to their obligations, according to what 
is fai r. But men have a degree over them. Al-
lah is Mighty and Wise.  
229. Divorce is allowed twice. Then, either 
honorable retention, or setting free kindly. It is not lawful for you to take back anything 
you have given them, unless they fear that 
they cannot mai ntain Allah's limits. If you 
fear that they cannot maintain Allah’s limits, 
then there is no blame on them if she sacri-
fices something for her release. These are Al-
lah’s limits, so do not transgress them. Those 
who transgress Allah’s limits are the unjust.  
230. If he divorces her, she shall not be lawful 
for him again until she has married another 
husband. If the latter divorces her, then there 
is no blame on them for reuniting, provided 
they think they can maintain Allah's limits. 
These are Allah’s limits;  He makes them clear 
to people who know.  
231. When you divorce women, and they have 
reached their term, either retain them amica-
bly, or release them amicably. But do not re-
tain them to hurt them and commit aggres-
sion. Whoever does that has wronged him-
self. And do not take Allah’s revelations for a 
joke. And remember Allah's favor to you, and 
that He revealed to you the Scripture and 
Wisdom to teach you. And fear Allah, and 
know that Allah is aware of everything.  232. When you divorce women, and they have 
reached their term, do not prevent them from 
marrying their husbands, provided they 
agree on fair terms. Thereby is advised who-
ever among you believes in Allah and the Last 
Day. That is better and more decent for you. 
Allah knows, and you do not know.  
233. Mothers may nurse their infants for two 
whole years, for those who desire to complete 
the nursing -period. It is the duty of the father 
to provide for them and clothe them in a 
proper manner. No soul shall be burdened 
beyond its capacity. No mother shall be 
harmed on account of her child, and no fa-
ther shall be harmed on account of his child. 
The same duty rests upon the heir. If the cou-
ple desire weaning, by mutual consent and consultation, they commit no error by doing 
so. You commit no error by hiring nurs ing-
mothers, as long as you pay them fairly. And 
be wary of Allah, and know that Allah is See-
ing of what you do.  
234. As for those among you who die and leave 
widows behind, their widows shall wait by 
themselves for four months and ten days. 
When they have  reached their term, there is 
no blame on you regarding what they might 
honorably do with themselves. Allah is fully 
acquainted with what you do.  
235. You commit no error by announcing your 
engagement to women, or by keeping it to 
yourselves. Allah knows t hat you will be 
thinking about them. But do not meet them secretly, unless you have something proper to 
say. And do not confirm the marriage tie un-
til the writing is fulfilled. And know that Al-
lah knows what is in your souls, so beware of Him. And know tha t Allah is Forgiving and 
Forbearing.  
236. You commit no error by divorcing women 
before having touched them, or before hav-
ing set the dowry for them. And compensate 
them —the wealthy according to his means, 
and the poor according to his means —with a 
fair co mpensation, a duty upon the doers of 
good.  
13 
