## 27.  THE ANT   (an-Nam l) 
there another god with Allah? But they are a 
people who equate.  
61. Or, who made the earth habitable, and 
made rivers flow through it, and set moun-
tains on it, and placed a partition between the 
two seas? Is there another god with Allah? But most of them do not know.  
62. Or, who answers the one in need when he 
prays to Him, and relieves adversity, and 
makes you successors on earth? Is there an-
other god with Allah? How hardly you pay at-
tention.  
63. Or, who guides you through the darkness 
of land and sea, and who sends the winds as 
heralds of His mercy? Is there another god 
with Allah? Most exalted is Allah, above what 
they associate.  
64. Or, who originates the creation and then 
repeats it, and who gives you livelihood from 
the sky and the earth? Is th ere another god 
with Allah? Say, “Produce your evidence, if 
you are truthful.”  
65. Say, “No one in the heavens or on earth 
knows the future except Allah; and they do 
not perceive when they will be resurrected.”  
66. In fact, their knowledge of the Hereafter  is 
confused. In fact, they are in doubt about it. In fact, they are blind to it.  
67. Those who disbelieve say, “When we have 
become dust, and our ancestors, shall we be 
brought out?  
68. We were promised that before, we and our 
ancestors —these are nothing but legends of 
the ancients.”  
69. Say, travel through the earth, and observe 
the fate of the guilty.”  
70. But do not grieve over them, and do not be 
troubled by what they plot.  
71. And they say, “When is this promise, if you 
are truthful?”  
72. Say, “Perhaps some of what you are impa-
tient for has drawn near.”  
73. Your Lord is gracious towards humanity, 
but most of them are not thankful.  74. And your Lord knows what their hearts 
conceal, and what they reveal.  
75. There is no mystery in the heaven and t he 
earth, but it is in a Clear Book.  
76. This Quran relates to the Children of Israel 
most of what they differ about.  
77. And it is guidance and mercy for the be-
lievers.  
78. Your Lord will judge between them by His 
wisdom. He is the Almighty, the All -Know-
ing. 
79. So rely on Allah. You are upon the clear 
truth.  
80. You cannot make the dead hear, nor can 
you make the deaf hear the call if they turn their backs and flee.  
81. Nor can you guide the blind out of their 
straying. You can make no one listen, except 
those who believe in Our verses; for they are 
Muslims.  
82. And when the Word has fallen on them, 
We will bring out for them from the earth a 
creature which will say to them that the peo-
ple are uncertain of Our revelations.  
83. On the Day when We gather fro m every 
community a group of those who rejected 
Our revelations; and they will be restrained.  
84. Until, when they arrive, He will say, “Did 
you reject My revelations without compre-
hending them? Or what is it you were doing?”  
85. The Word will come down up on them for 
their wrongdoing, and they will not speak.  
86. Do they not see that We made the night for 
them to rest therein, and the day for visibil-
ity? Surely in that are signs for people who 
believe.  
87. On the Day when the Trumpet is blown, 
everyone in t he heavens and the earth will be 
horrified, except whomever Allah wills; and everyone will come before Him in humility.  
88. And you see the mountains, and imagine 
them fixed, yet they pass, as the passing of the 
144 
