## 33.  THE CONFEDERATES   (al-Ahzab)  
forces you did not see. Allah is Observant of 
what you do.  
10. When they came upon you, from above 
you, and from beneath you; and the eyes be-
came dazed, and th e hearts reached the 
throats, and you harbored doubts about Al-
lah. 
11. There and then the believers were tested, 
and were shaken most severely.  
12. When the hypocrites and those in whose 
hearts is sickness said, “Allah and His Mes-
senger promised us nothing  but illusion.”  
13. And when a group of them said, “O people 
of Yathrib, you cannot make a stand, so re-treat.” And a faction of them asked the 
Prophet to excuse them, saying, “Our homes 
are exposed,” although they were not ex-
posed. They only wanted to flee . 
14. Had it been invaded from its sides, and 
they were asked to dissent, they would have 
done so with little hesitation.  
15. Although they had made a pledged to Al-
lah, in the past, that they will not turn their 
backs. A pledge to Allah is a responsibility . 
16. Say, “Flight will not benefit you, if you flee 
from death or killing, even then you will be 
given only brief enjoyment.”  
17. Say, “Who is it who will shield you from 
Allah, if He intends adversity for you, or in-
tends mercy for you?” Besides Allah, they will 
find for themselves neither friend nor helper.  
18. Allah already knows the hinderers among 
you, and those who say to their brethren, 
“Come and join us.” Rarely do they mobilize 
for battle.  
19. Being stingy towards you. And when fear 
approaches, y ou see them staring at you —
their eyes rolling —like someone fainting at 
death. Then, when panic is over, they whip 
you with sharp tongues. They resent you any 
good. These have never believed, so Allah has 
nullified their works; a matter easy for Allah.  
20. They assumed that the confederates had 
not withdrawn. But were the confederates to advance, they would wish they were in the de-
sert with the Bedouins, inquiring about your 
news. And if they were among you, they 
would have done little fighting.  
21. You have  an excellent example in the Mes-
senger of Allah; for anyone who seeks Allah 
and the Last Day, and remembers Allah fre-
quently.  
22. And when the believers saw the confeder-
ates, they said, “This is what Allah and His 
messenger have promised us; and Allah and 
His messenger have told the truth.” And it 
only increased them in faith and submission.  
23. Of the believers are men who are true to 
what they pledged to Allah. Some of them 
have fulfilled their vows; and some are still 
waiting, and never wavering.  
24. That Allah may reward the truthful for 
their truthfulness; and punish the hypocrites, 
if He wills, or pardon them. Allah is Forgiv-
ing and Merciful.  
25. Allah repelled the disbelievers in their rage; 
they gained no advantage. Allah thus spared 
the believers co mbat. Allah is Strong and 
Mighty.  
26. And He brought down from their strong-
holds those of the People of the Book who backed them, and He threw terror into their hearts. Some of them you killed, and others you took captive.  
27. And He made you inherit their  land, and 
their homes, and their possessions, and a re-
gion you have never stepped on. Allah has 
power over all things.  
28. O Prophet! Say to your wives, “If you desire 
the life of this world and its finery, then let me 
compensate you, and release you kind ly. 
29. But if you desire Allah, His Messenger, and 
the Home of the Hereafter, then Allah has 
prepared for the righteous among you a mag-
nificent compensation.”  
30. O wives of the Prophet! Whoever of you 
commits a proven indecency, the punish-
ment for her wi ll be doubled. And that would 
be easy for Allah.  
158 
