## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
29. Say, “Whether you conceal what is in your 
hearts, or disclose it, Allah knows it.” He 
knows everything in the heavens and the 
earth. Allah is Powerful over everything.  
30. On the Day when every soul finds all the 
good it has done presented. And as for the 
evil it has done, it will wish there were a great 
distance between them. Allah cautions you of 
Himself. Allah is Kind towards the servants.  
31. Say, “If you love Allah, then follow me, and 
Allah will love you, and will forgive you your 
sins.” Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
32. Say, “Obey Allah and the Mess enger.” But 
if they turn away —Allah does not love the 
faithless.  
33. Allah chose Adam, and Noah, and the fam-
ily of Abraham, and the family of Imran, over all mankind.  
34. Offspring one of the other. Allah is Hearer 
and Knower.  
35. The wife of Imran said, “My Lord, I have 
vowed to You what is in my womb, dedi-
cated, so accept from me; You are the Hearer 
and Knower.”  
36. And when she delivered her, she said, “My 
Lord, I have delivered a female,” and Allah 
was well aware of what she has  delivered, 
“and the male is not like the female, and I 
have named her Mary, and have commended 
her and her descendants to Your protection, 
from Satan the outcast.”  
37. Her Lord accepted her with a gracious re-
ception, and brought her a beautiful upbring-
ing, and entrusted her to the care of Zecha-
riah. Whenever Zechariah entered upon her in the sanctuary, he found her with provision. 
He said, “O Mary, where did you get this 
from?” She said, “It is from Allah; Allah pro-
vides to whom He wills without reckoning. ” 
38. Thereupon Zechariah prayed to his Lord; 
he said, “My Lord, bestow on me good off-
spring from Your presence; You are the 
Hearer of Prayers.”  
39. Then the angels called out to him, as he 
stood praying in the sanctuary: “Allah gives you good news of Joh n; confirming a Word 
from Allah, and honorable, and moral, and a 
prophet; one of the upright.”  
40. He said, “My Lord, how will I have a son, 
when old age has overtaken me, and my wife 
is barren?” He said, “Even so, Allah does 
whatever He wills.”  
41. He said, “My Lord, give me a sign.” He said, 
“Your sign is that you shall not speak to the 
people for three days, except by gestures. And 
remember your Lord much, and praise in the 
evening and the morning.”  
42. The angels said, “O Mary, Allah has chosen 
you, an d has purified you. He has chosen you 
over all the women of the world.  
43. “O Mary, be devoted to your Lord, and 
bow down, and kneel with those who kneel.”  
44. These are accounts from the Unseen, 
which We reveal to you. You were not with 
them when they ca st their lots as to which of 
them would take charge of Mary; nor were 
you with them as they quarreled.  
45. The Angels said, “O Mary, Allah gives you 
good news of a Word from Him. His name is 
the Messiah, Jesus, son of Mary, well -es-
teemed in this world and the next, and one of 
the nearest.  
46. He will speak to the people from the crib, 
and in adulthood, and will be one of the 
righteous.”  
47. She said, “My Lord, how can I have a child, 
when no man has touched me?” He said, “It 
will be so. Allah creates whatev er He wills. To 
have anything done, He only says to it, ‘Be,’ 
and it is.”  
48. And He will teach him the Scripture and 
wisdom, and the Torah and the Gospel.  
49. A messenger to the Children of Israel: “I 
have come to you with a sign from your Lord. 
I make for you out of clay the figure of a bird; 
then I breathe into it, and it becomes a bird 
by Allah’s leave. And I heal the blind and the 
leprous, and I revive the dead, by Allah’s 
leave. And I inform you concerning what you 
19 
