## 42.  CONSULTATION   (ash-Shura)  
bring us together, and to Him is the ultimate 
return.”  
16. As for those who dispute about Allah after 
having answered His call, their argument is 
invalid with their Lord; and upon them falls 
wrath; and a grievous torment awaits them.  
17. It is Allah who revealed the Book with the 
truth, and the Balance. And what will make you realize that perhaps the Hour is near?  
18. Those who do not believe in it seek to has-
ten it; but those who believe are apprehensive 
of it, and they know it to be the  truth. Abso-
lutely, those who question the Hour are in 
distant error.  
19. Allah is kind towards His worshipers. He 
provides for whomever He wills. He is the 
Powerful, the Honorable.  
20. Whoever desires the harvest of the Hereaf-
ter, We increase for him his harvest; and 
whoever desires the harvest of this world, We 
give him thereof, and he has no share of the 
Hereafter.  
21. Or is it that they have partners who litigate 
for them religious laws never authorized by 
Allah? Were it not for the conclusive deci-sion,  it would have been settled between 
them. The wicked will have a painful punish-
ment.  
22. You will see the unjust terrified of what 
they have earned, and it will befall them. As 
for those who believe and do good deeds, 
they will be in the Meadows of the Gardens; 
they will have whatever they please in the 
presence of their Lord; that is the supreme 
blessing.  
23. That is the good news Allah gives to His 
servants who believe and do good deeds. Say, 
“I ask of you no wage for it, except affection 
among the near of kin.” Whoever does a good 
deed, We will increase its goodness for him. 
Allah is Forgiving and Appreciative.  
24. Or do they say, “He forged a lie about Al-
lah.” If Allah so willed, He could have sealed 
your heart. But Allah obliterates the false, and 
confirm the true by His Words. He knows 
what is in the hearts.  25. It is He who accepts the repentance of His 
worshipers, and remits the sins, and knows 
what you do.  
26. And He answers those who believe and do 
good deeds, and He increases them of His 
grace. But the disbelievers will suffer a terri-
ble punishment.  
27. If Allah were to increase the provision to 
His servants, they would transgress on earth; but He sends down in precise measure what-
ever He wills. Surely, regarding His servants, 
He is Expert and Ob servant.  
28. It is He who brings down the rain after they 
have despaired, and unfolds His mercy. He is 
the Guardian, the Praised.  
29. And of His signs are the creation of the 
heavens and the earth, and the creatures He has spread throughout them; and He is  Able 
to gather them at will.  
30. Whatever misfortune befalls you, it is be-
cause of what your hands have earned; and 
yet He pardons much.  
31. You are not the ones to interfere on earth; 
and besides Allah, you have no ally, and no helper.  
32. And of His sig ns are the ships sailing the 
sea like flags.  
33. If He willed, He could have stilled the 
winds, leaving them motionless on its sur-
face. Surely in that are signs for every disci-
plined, grateful person.  
34. Or He could wreck them, because of what 
they have e arned. And yet He pardons much.  
35. Those who dispute Our signs know that 
there is no asylum for them.  
36. Whatever thing you are given is only the 
provision of this life. But what Allah pos-
sesses is better and more lasting for those 
who believe and rely o n their Lord.  
37. And those who avoid major sins and inde-
cencies; and if they become angry, they for-
give.  
38. And those who respond to their Lord, and 
pray regularly, and conduct their affairs by 
185 
