## 31.  LUQMAN   (Luqman)  
mockery of it. These will have a humiliating 
punishment.  
7. And when Our Verses are recited to him, he 
turns away in pride, as though he did not hear 
them, as though there is deafness in his ears. 
So inform him of a painful punishment.  
8. As for those who believe and do good 
deeds —for them are the Gardens of Bliss.  
9. Dwelling therein forever. The promise of 
Allah is true. He is the Mighty,  the Wise.  
10. He created the heavens without pillars that 
you can see, and placed stabilizers on earth 
lest it shifts with you, and scattered through-
out it all kinds of creatures. And from the sky 
We sent down water, and caused to grow 
therein of every no ble pair.  
11. Such is Allah’s creation. Now show me 
what those besides Him have created. In fact, 
the wicked are in obvious error.  
12. We endowed Luqman with wisdom: “Give 
thanks to Allah.” Whoever is appreciative —
is appreciative for the benefit of his own  soul. 
And whoever is unappreciative —Allah is 
Sufficient and Praiseworthy.  
13. When Luqman said to his son, as he ad-
vised him, “O my son, do not associate any-
thing with Allah, for idolatry is a terrible 
wrong.”  
14. We have entrusted the human being with 
the care of his parents. His mother carried 
him through hardship upon hardship, wean-
ing him in two years. So give thanks to Me, 
and to your parents. To Me is the destination.  
15. But if they strive to have you associate with 
Me something of which you have no  
knowledge, do not obey them. But keep them 
company in this life, in kindness, and follow 
the path of him who turns to Me. Then to Me 
is your return; and I will inform you of what 
you used to do.  
16. “O my son, even if it were the weight of a 
mustard -seed,  in a rock, or in the heavens, or 
on earth, Allah will bring it to light. Allah is Kind and Expert.  17. O my son, observe the prayer, advocate 
righteousness, forbid evil, and be patient over 
what has befallen you. These are of the most 
honorable traits.  
18. And do not treat people with arrogance, 
nor walk proudly on earth. Allah does not 
love the arrogant showoffs.  
19. And moderate your stride, and lower your 
voice. The most repulsive of voices is the 
donkey’s voice.”  
20. Do you not see how Allah placed at your 
service everything in the heavens and the 
earth? How He showered you with His bless-ings, both outward and inward? Yet among 
the people is he who argues about Allah with-
out knowledge, without guidance, and with-
out an enlightening Scripture.  
21. And whe n it is said to them, “Follow what 
Allah has revealed,” they say, “Rather, we fol-
low what we found our parents devoted to.” Even if Satan is calling them to the suffering 
of the Blaze?  
22. Whoever submits himself wholly to Allah, 
and is a doer of good, ha s grasped the most 
trustworthy handle. With Allah rests the out-
come of all events.  
23. Whoever disbelieves —let not his disbelief 
sadden you. To Us is their return. Then We will inform them of what they did. Allah 
knows what lies within the hearts.  
24. We g ive them a little comfort; then We 
compel them to a harsh torment.  
25. And if you ask them, “Who created the 
heavens and the earth?” They will say, “Al-
lah.” Say, “Praise be to Allah.” But most of 
them do not know.  
26. To Allah belongs everything in the heavens 
and the earth. Allah is the Rich, the Praised.  
27. If all the trees on earth were pens, filled by 
the ocean, with seven more oceans besides, 
the Words of Allah would not run out. Allah 
is Majestic and Wise.  
28. Your creation and your resurrection are 
only as a single soul. Allah is Hearing and Seeing.  
155 
