## 28.  HISTORY   (al-Qasas)  
60. Whatever thing you are given is but the 
material of this world, and its glitter. But 
what is with Allah is better, and longer last-
ing. Do you not comprehend?  
61. Can someone to whom We have made a 
fine promise —which he will attain —be equal 
to someone to whom We have given enjoy-
ments in this world, but who will be, on Res-
urrection Day, among the arraigned?  
62. On t he Day when He will call to them, and 
say, “Where are My associates whom you 
used to claim?”  
63. Those against whom the sentence is justi-
fied will say, “Our Lord, these are they whom 
we misled. We misled them, as we were mis-
led. We beg Your forgiveness; it  was not us 
they used to worship.”  
64. And it will be said, “Call on your partners.” 
And they will call on them, but they will not respond to them. And they will see the suffer-
ing. If only they were guided.  
65. On the Day when He will call to them, and 
say, “What did you answer the Messengers?”  
66. They will be blinded by the facts on that 
Day, and they will not question each other.  
67. But he who repents, and believes, and does 
righteous deeds, may well be among the win-
ners.  
68. Your Lord creates whatev er He wills, and 
He chooses. The choice is not theirs. Glory be to Allah, and exalted be He above the associ-
ations they make.  
69. And your Lord knows what their hearts 
conceal, and what they reveal.  
70. And He is Allah. There is no god but He. 
To Him belon gs all praise in this life, and in 
the next. And His is the decision, and to Him 
you will be returned.  
71. Say, “Have you considered? Had Allah 
made the night perpetual over you until the 
Day of Resurrection, which god other than 
Allah will bring you illumination? Do you 
not hear?”  
72. Say, “Have you considered? Had Allah 
made the day perpetual over you until the Day of Resurrection, which god other than 
Allah will bring you night to rest in? Do you 
not see?”  
73. It is out of His mercy that He made for you 
the night and the day, that you may rest in it, 
and seek some of His bounty; and that you 
may give thanks.  
74. On the Day when He will call to them, and 
say, “Where are My associates whom you 
used to claim?”  
75. And We will draw out from every commu-
nity a witness, and say, “Produce your evi-
dence.” Then they will realize that the truth is 
Allah’s, and those they used to invent have 
forsaken them.  
76. Quaroon belonged to the clan of Moses, 
but he oppressed them. We had given him treasures, the keys of which w ould weigh 
down a group of strong men. His people said 
to him, “Do not exult; Allah does not love the 
exultant.  
77. But seek, with what Allah has given you, 
the Home of the Hereafter, and do not ne-
glect your share of this world. And be chari-table, as Allah  has been charitable to you. 
And do not seek corruption in the land. Allah 
does not like the seekers of corruption.”  
78. He said, “I was given all this on account of 
knowledge I possess.” Did he not know that 
Allah destroyed many generations before 
him, wh o were stronger than he, and pos-
sessed greater riches? But the guilty will not be asked about their sins.  
79. And he went out before his people in his 
splendor. Those who desired the worldly life 
said, “If only we possessed the likes of what 
Quaroon was gi ven. He is indeed very fortu-
nate.”  
80. But those who were given knowledge said, 
“Woe to you! The reward of Allah is better for 
those who believe and do righteous deeds.” 
Yet none attains it except the steadfast.  
81. So We caused the earth to cave in on him  
and his mansion. He had no company to save 
him from Allah, and he could not defend 
himself.  
148 
