## 22.  THE PILGRIMAGE   (al-Hajj)  
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. O people, be conscious of your Lord. The 
quaking of the Hour is a tremendous thing.  
2. On the Day when you will see it: every nurs-
ing mother will discard her infant, and every 
pregnant woman will abort her load, and you 
will see the people drunk, even though they 
are not drunk —but the punishment of Allah 
is severe.  
3. Among the people is he who argues about 
Allah without knowledge, and f ollows every 
defiant devil.  
4. It was decreed for him, that whoever follows 
him—he will misguide him, and lead him to 
the torment of the Blaze.  
5. O people! If you are in doubt about the Res-
urrection —We created you from dust, then 
from a small drop, then f rom a clinging clot, 
then from a lump of flesh, partly developed and partly undeveloped. In order to clarify 
things for you. And We settle in the wombs 
whatever We will for a designated term, and 
then We bring you out as infants, until you 
reach your full strength. And some of you will 
pass away, and some of you will be returned 
to the vilest age, so that he may not know, af-
ter having known. And you see the earth still; 
but when We send down water on it, it vi-
brates, and swells, and grows all kinds of 
lovel y pairs.  
6. That is because Allah is the truth, and be-
cause He gives life to the dead, and because 
He is Capable of everything.  
7. And because the Hour is coming —there is 
no doubt about it— and because Allah will 
resurrect those in the graves.  
8. And among the people is he who argues 
about Allah without knowledge, or guidance, 
or an enlightening scripture.  9. Turning aside in contempt, to lead away 
from the path of Allah. He will have humilia-
tion in this world, and on the Day of Resur-
rection We will make him  taste the agony of 
burning.  
10. That is for what your hands have advanced, 
and because Allah is not unjust to the serv-
ants.  
11. And among the people is he who worships 
Allah on edge. When something good comes 
his way, he is content with it. But when an or-
deal strikes him, he makes a turnaround. He 
loses this world and the next. That is the ob-
vious loss.  
12. He invokes, instead of Allah, what can nei-
ther harm him nor benefit him. That is the far 
straying.  
13. He invokes one whose harm is closer than 
his b enefit. What a miserable master. What a 
miserable companion.  
14. Allah will admit those who believe and do 
righteous deeds into Gardens beneath which 
rivers flow. Allah does whatever He wills.  
15. Whoever thinks that Allah will not help 
him in this life an d in the Hereafter —let him 
turn to heaven, then sever, and see if his cun-
ning eliminates what enrages him.  
16. Thus We revealed it as clarifying signs, and 
Allah guides whomever He wills.  
17. Those who believe, and those who are Jew-
ish, and the Sabeans, and the Christians, and 
the Zoroastrians, and the Polytheists —Allah 
will judge between them on the Day of Res-
urrection. Allah is witness to all things.  
18. Do you not realize that to Allah prostrates 
everyone in the heavens and everyone on 
earth, and the sun, and the moon, and the stars, and the mountains, and the trees, and 
the animals, and many of the people? But 
many are justly deserving of punishment. 
Whomever Allah shames, there is none to 
honor him. Allah does whatever He wills.  
19. Here are two adversa ries feuding regarding 
their Lord. As for those who disbelieve, gar-
ments of fire will be tailored for them, and 
123 
