## 50.  QAF   (Qaf)  
8. A lesson and a reminder for every penitent 
worshiper.  
9. And We brought down from the sky blessed 
water, and produced with it gardens and 
grain to harvest.  
10. And the soaring palm trees, with clustered 
dates.  
11. As sustenance for the servants. And We re-
vive thereby a dead town. Likewise is the res-
urrection.  
12. Before them the people of Noah denied the 
truth, and so did the dwellers of Russ, and 
Thamood.  
13. And Aad, and Pharaoh, and the brethren of 
Lot. 
14. And the Dwellers of the Woods, and the 
people of Tubba. They all rejected the mes-
sengers, so My threat came true.  
15. Were We fatigued by the first creation? But 
they are  in doubt of a new creation.  
16. We created the human being, and We 
know what his soul whispers to him. We are nearer to him than his jugular vein.  
17. As the two receivers receive, seated to the 
right and to the left.  
18. Not a word does he utter, but the re is a 
watcher by him, ready.  
19. The daze of death has come in truth: “This 
is what you tried to evade.”  
20. And the Trumpet is blown: “This is the 
Promised Day.”  
21. And every soul will come forward, accom-
panied by a driver and a witness.  
22. “You were in neglect of this, so We lifted 
your screen from you, and your vision today 
is keen.”  
23. And His escort will say, “This is what I have 
ready with me.”  
24. “Throw into Hell every stubborn disbe-
liever.  
25. Preventer of good, aggressor, doubter.  
26. Who fab ricated another god with Allah; 
toss him into the intense agony.”  27. His escort will say, “Our Lord, I did not 
make him rebel, but he was far astray.”  
28. He will say, “Do not feud in My presence —
I had warned you in advance.  
29. The decree from Me will no t be changed, 
and I am not unjust to the servants.”  
30. On the Day when We will say to Hell, “Are 
you full?” And it will say, “Are there any 
more?”  
31. And Paradise will be brought closer to the 
pious, not far away.  
32. “This is what you were promised —for 
every careful penitent.  
33. Who inwardly feared the Most Gracious, 
and came with a repentant heart.  
34. Enter it in peace. This is the Day of Eter-
nity.”  
35. Therein they will have whatever they de-
sire—and We have even more.  
36. How many generations before them, who 
were more powerful than they, did We de-
stroy? They explored the lands —was there 
any escape?  
37. In that is a reminder for whoever possesses 
a heart, or cares to listen and witness.  
38. We created the heavens and the earth and 
what is between them  in six days, and no fa-
tigue touched Us.  
39. So endure what they say, and proclaim the 
praises of your Lord before the rising of the 
sun, and before sunset.  
40. And glorify Him during the night, and at 
the end of devotions.  
41. And listen for the Day when the caller calls 
from a nearby place.  
42. The Day when they will hear the Shout in 
all truth. That is the Day of Emergence.  
43. It is We who control life and death, and to 
Us is the destination.  
44. The Day when the earth will crack for them 
at once. That is an easy gathering for Us.  
199 
