## 46.  THE DUNES   (al-Ahqaf)  
and has believed, while you turned arrogant. 
Allah does not guide the unjust people.”  
11. Those who disbelieve say to those who be-
lieve, “If it were anything good, they would 
not have preceded us to it.” And since they 
were not guided by it, they will say, “This is an ancient lie.”  
12. And before it was the Book of Moses, a 
model and a mercy. And thi s is a confirming 
Book, in the Arabic language, to warn those 
who do wrong —and good news for the doers 
of good.  
13. Those who say, “Our Lord is Allah,” then 
lead a righteous life —they have nothing to 
fear, nor shall they grieve.  
14. These are the inhabitan ts of Paradise, 
where they will dwell forever —a reward for 
what they used to do.  
15. We have enjoined upon man kindness to 
his parents. His mother carried him with dif-
ficulty, and delivered him with difficulty. His bearing and weaning takes thirty months. 
Until, when he has attained his maturity, and has reached forty years, he says, “Lord, enable 
me to appreciate the blessings You have be-
stowed upon me and upon my parents, and 
to act with righteousness, pleasing You. And 
improve my children for me. I have sincerely 
repented to You, and I am of those who have 
surrendered.”  
16. Those are they from whom We accept the 
best of their deeds, and We overlook their 
misdeeds, among the dwellers of Paradise —
the promise of truth which they are prom-
ised.  
17. As for him who says to his parents, 
“Enough of you! Are you promising me that 
I will be raised up, when generations have passed away before me?” While they cry for 
Allah’s help, “Woe to you! Believe! The 
promise of Allah is true!” But he says, “These 
are nothing but tales of the ancients.”  
18. Those are they upon whom the sentence is 
justified, among the communities that have 
passed away before them, of jinn and hu-
mans. They are truly losers.  19. There are degrees for everyone, according 
to what they have done, and He  will repay 
them for their works in full, and they will not be wronged.  
20. On the Day when the faithless will be pa-
raded before the Fire: “You have squandered 
your good in your worldly life, and you took 
pleasure in them. So today you are being re-
paid wit h the torment of shame, because of 
your unjust arrogance on earth, and because 
you used to sin.”  
21. And mention the brother of Aad, as he 
warned his people at the dunes. Warnings 
have passed away before him, and after him: 
“Worship none but Allah; I fear for you the 
punishment of a tremendous Day.”  
22. They said, “Did you come to us to divert us 
from our gods? Then bring us what you 
threaten us with, if you are being truthful.”  
23. He said, “The knowledge is only with Al-
lah, and I inform you of what I was sent with; 
but I see you are an ignorant people.”  
24. Then, when they saw a cloud approaching 
their valley, they said, “This is a cloud that 
will bring us rain.” “In fact, it is what you 
were impatient for: a wind in which is griev-
ous suffering.”  
25. It wi ll destroy everything by the command 
of its Lord. And when the morning came 
upon them, there was nothing to be seen ex-
cept their dwellings. Thus We requite the 
guilty people.  
26. We had empowered them in the same way 
as We empowered you; and We gave them 
the hearing, and the sight, and the minds. But 
neither their hearing, nor their sight, nor 
their minds availed them in any way. That is 
because they disregarded the revelations of 
Allah; and so they became surrounded by 
what they used to ridicule.  
27. We ha ve destroyed many townships 
around you, and diversified the signs, so that 
they may return.  
28. Why then did the idols, whom they wor-
shiped as means of nearness to Allah, not 
help them? In fact, they abandoned them. It 
193 
