## 29.  THE SPIDER   (al-’Ankabut)  
39. And Quaroon, and Pharaoh, and Ha-
maan— Moses went to them with clear argu-
ments, but they acted arrogantly in the land. 
And they could not get ahead.  
40. Each We seized by his sin. Against some 
We sent a sandstorm. Some were struck by 
the Blast. Some We caused the ground to cave 
in beneath them. And some We drowned. It 
was not Allah who wronged them, but it was they who wronged their own selves.  
41. The likeness of those who take to them-
selves protectors other than Allah is that of 
the spider. It builds a house. But the most 
fragile of houses is the spider’s house. If they 
only knew.  
42. Allah knows what they invoke besides 
Him. He is the Almighty, the Wise.  
43. These examples —We put them forward to 
the people; but none grasps them except the 
learned.  
44. Allah created the hea vens and the earth 
with truth. Surely in that is a sign for the be-
lievers.  
45. Recite what is revealed to you of the Scrip-
ture, and perform the prayer. The prayer pre-vents indecencies and evils. And the remem-
brance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows 
what you do.  
46. And do not argue with the People of the 
Scripture except in the best manner possible, 
except those who do wrong among them. 
And say, “We believe in what was revealed to 
us, and in what was revealed to you; and our 
God and your God is One; and to Him we are 
submissive.”  
47. Likewise, We revealed to you the Scripture. 
Those to whom We gave the Scripture believe 
in it, and some of these believe in it. None re-
nounce Our communications except the dis-
believers.  
48. You did not read any scripture befo re this, 
nor did you write it down with your right 
hand; otherwise the falsifiers would have 
doubted.  49. In fact, it is clear signs in the hearts of those 
given knowledge. No one renounce Our signs 
except the unjust.  
50. And they said, “If only a miracle from his 
Lord was sent down to him.” Say, “Miracles 
are only with Allah, and I am only a clear 
warner.”  
51. Does it not suffice them that We revealed 
to you the Scripture, which is recited to them? 
In that is mercy and a reminder for people 
who believe.  
52. Say, “Allah suffices as witness between you 
and me. He knows everything in the heavens 
and the Earth. Those who believe in vanity 
and reject Allah —it is they who are the los-
ers.”  
53. And they urge you to hasten the punish-
ment. Were it not for a specified time, the 
punishment would have come to them. But it 
will come upon them suddenly, while they 
are unaware.  
54. They urge you to hasten the punishment. 
But Hell will engulf the disbelievers.  
55. On the Day when the punishment will en-
velop them, from above  them, and from be-
neath their feet, He will say, “Taste what you 
used to do!”  
56. O My servants who have believed: My 
earth is vast, so worship Me alone.  
57. Every soul will taste death. Then to Us you 
will be returned.  
58. Those who believe and work right eous-
ness—We will settle them in Paradise, in 
mansions under which rivers flow, dwelling therein forever. Excellent is the compensa-
tion for the workers.  
59. Those who endure patiently, and in their 
Lord they trust.  
60. How many a creature there is that does  not 
carry its provision? Allah provides for them, 
and for you. He is the Hearer, the Knowl-
edgeable.  
61. And if you asked them, “Who created the 
heavens and the earth and regulated the sun 
151 
