## 29.  THE SPIDER   (al-’Ankabut)  
16. And Abr aham, when he said to his people, 
“Worship Allah, and fear Him. That is better 
for you, if you only knew.  
17. You worship idols besides Allah, and you 
fabricate falsehoods. Those you worship, in-
stead of Allah, cannot provide you with live-
lihood. So seek yo ur livelihood from Allah, 
and worship Him, and thank Him. To Him 
you will be returned.”  
18. If you disbelieve, communities before you 
have also disbelieved. The Messenger is only 
responsible for clear transmission.  
19. Have they not seen how Allah originates 
the creation, and then reproduces it? This is 
easy for Allah.  
20. Say, “Roam the earth, and observe how He 
originated the creation.” Then Allah will bring about the next existence. Allah has 
power over all things.”  
21. He punishes whom He wills, and He  grants 
mercy to whom He wills, and to Him you will 
be restored.  
22. You cannot escape, on earth or in the 
heaven; and you have no protector and no savior besides Allah.  
23. Those who disbelieved in Allah’s signs and 
His encounter —these have despaired of M y 
mercy. For them is a painful torment.  
24. But the only response from his people was 
their saying, “Kill him, or burn him.” But Al-
lah saved him from the fire. Surely in that are 
signs for people who believe.  
25. And he said, “You have chosen idols in-
stead  of Allah, out of affection for one an-
other in the worldly life. But then, on the Day 
of Resurrection, you will disown one another, 
and curse one another. Your destiny is Hell, 
and you will have no saviors.”  
26. Then Lot believed in him, and said, “I am 
emigrating to my Lord. He is the Noble, the Wise.”  
27. And We granted him Isaac and Jacob, and 
conferred on his descendants the 
Prophethood and the Book, and gave him his reward in this life; and in the Hereafter he will 
be among the upright.  
28. And Lot, when he said to his people, “You 
are committing an obscenity not perpetrated 
before you by anyone in the whole world.  
29. You approach men, and cut off the way, 
and commit lewdness in your gatherings.” 
But the only response from his people was to 
say, “Bri ng upon us Allah’s punishment, if 
you are truthful.”  
30. He said, “My Lord, help me against the 
people of corruption.”  
31. And when Our envoys brought Abraham 
the good news, they said, “We are going to 
destroy the people of this town; its people are 
wrongd oers.”  
32. He said, “Yet Lot is in it.” They said, “We 
are well aware of who is in it. We will save 
him, and his family, except for his wife, who 
will remain behind.”  
33. Then, when Our envoys came to Lot, they 
were mistreated, and he was troubled and 
distressed on their account. They said, “Do 
not fear, nor grieve. We will save you and 
your family, except for your wife, who will re-
main behind.”  
34. “We will bring down upon the people of 
this town a scourge from heaven, because of 
their wickedness.”  
35. And  We left behind a clear trace of it, for 
people who understand.  
36. And to Median, their brother Shuaib. He 
said, “O my people, worship Allah and antic-
ipate the Last Day, and do not spread corrup-
tion in the land.”  
37. But they rejected him, so the tremor over-
took them, and they were left motionless in their homes.  
38. And Aad and Thamood. It has become 
clear to you from their dwellings. Satan em-
bellished for them their deeds, barring them 
from the path, even though they could see.  
150 
