## 40.  FORGIVER   (Ghafir)  
20. Allah judges with justice, while those 
whom they invoke besides Him cannot judge 
with anything. It is Allah who is the Hearing, 
the See ing. 
21. Have they not travelled through the earth, 
and seen the consequences for those before 
them? They were stronger than them, and 
they left more impact on earth. But Allah 
seized them for their sins, and they had no 
defender against Allah.  
22. That is  because their messengers used to 
come to them with clear proofs, but they dis-
believed, so Allah seized them. He is Strong, 
Severe in retribution.  
23. We sent Moses with Our signs, and a clear 
authority.  
24. To Pharaoh, Hamaan, and Quaroon. But 
they said, “A lying sorcerer.”  
25. Then, when he came to them with the truth 
from Us, they said, “Kill the sons of those who have believed with him, and spare their daughters.” But the scheming of the unbe-
lievers can only go astray.  
26. Pharaoh said, “Leave me to kil l Moses, and 
let him appeal to his Lord. I fear he may change your religion, or spread disorder in 
the land.”  
27. Moses said, “I have sought the protection 
of my Lord and your Lord, from every tyrant 
who does not believe in the Day of Account.”  
28. A belie ving man from Pharaoh's family, 
who had concealed his faith, said, “Are you 
going to kill a man for saying, `My Lord is Allah,’ and he has brought you clear proofs 
from your Lord? If he is a liar, his lying will rebound upon him; but if he is truthful, the n 
some of what he promises you will befall you. 
Allah does not guide the extravagant im-
poster.  
29. O my people! Yours is the dominion today, 
supreme in the land; but who will help us 
against Allah’s might, should it fall upon us?” 
Pharaoh said, “I do not s how you except what 
I see, and I do not guide you except to the path of prudence.”  30. The one who had believed said, “O my peo-
ple, I fear for you the like of the day of the confederates.  
31. Like the fate of the people of Noah, and 
Aad, and Thamood, and t hose after them. Al-
lah wants no injustice for the servants.  
32. O my people, I fear for you the Day of Call-
ing Out.  
33. The Day when you will turn and flee, hav-
ing no defender against Allah. Whomever Al-
lah misguides has no guide.”  
34. Joseph had come to you with clear revela-
tions, but you continued to doubt what he 
came to you with. Until, when he perished, you said, “Allah will never send a messenger 
after him.” Thus Allah leads astray the outra-
geous skeptic.  
35. Those who argue against Allah’s revela-
tions, without any proof having come to 
them —a heinous sin in the sight of Allah, and 
of those who believe. Thus Allah seals the 
heart of every proud bully.  
36. And Pharaoh said, “O Hamaan, build me a 
tower, that I may reach the pathways.  
37. The pat hways of the heavens, so that I may 
glance at the God of Moses; though I think he 
is lying.” Thus Pharaoh’s evil deeds were 
made to appear good to him, and he was 
averted from the path. Pharaoh's guile was 
only in defeat.  
38. The one who had believed said,  “O my peo-
ple, follow me, and I will guide you to the 
path of rectitude.”  
39. “O my people, the life of this world is noth-
ing but fleeting enjoyment, but the Hereafter 
is the Home of Permanence.  
40. Whoever commits a sin will be repaid only 
with its like. But whoever works righteous-
ness, whether male or female, and is a be-
liever —these will enter Paradise, where they 
will be provided for without account.  
41. O my people, how is it that I call you to sal-
vation, and you call me to the Fire?  
179 
