## 34.  SHEBA   (Saba’)  
16. But they turned away, so We unleashed 
against them the flood of the dam; and We 
substituted their two gardens with two gar-
dens of bitter fruits, thorny shrubs, and mea-
ger harvest.  
17. We thus penalized them for their ingrati-
tude. Would We penalize any but the un-grateful?  
18. Between them and the towns We had 
blessed, We placed prominent towns, and 
We made the travel between them easy. 
“Travel between them by night and day, in 
safety.”  
19. But they said, “Our Lord, lengthen the dis-
tances of our journeys.” They wronged them-
selves; so We made them history, and We scattered them in every direction. In this are 
lessons for every steadfast and appreciative 
person.  
20. Satan was correct in his assessment of 
them. They followed him, except for a group 
of believers.  
21. He had no authority over them; except that 
We willed to distinguish him who believes in the Hereaf ter, from him who is doubtful 
about it. Your Lord is Guardian over all 
things.  
22. Say, “Call upon those whom you claim be-
sides Allah. They possess not an atom's 
weight in the heavens or the earth, and they 
possess no share of either, and He has no 
backers  from among them.”  
23. Intercession with Him is of no value, ex-
cept for someone He has permitted. Until, 
when fear has subsided from their hearts, they will say, “What did your Lord say?” They 
will say, “The truth, and He is the High, the 
Great.”  
24. Say, “Who provides for you from the heav-
ens and the earth?” Say, “Allah. And Either 
you, or we, are rightly guided, or in evident 
error.”  
25. Say, “You will not be asked about our mis-
deeds, nor will we be asked about what you 
do.” 26. Say, “Our Lord will bring us together; then 
He will judge between us equitably. He is the 
All-Knowing Judge.”  
27. Say, “Show me those you have attached to 
Him as associates. No indeed! But He is Al-
lah, the Powerful, the Wise.”  
28. We sent you only universally to all people, 
a heral d and warner, but most people do not 
know.  
29. And they say, “When is this promise due, 
if you are truthful?”  
30. Say, “You are promised a Day, which you 
cannot postpone by one hour, nor bring for-
ward.”  
31. Those who disbelieve say, “We will never 
believe in this Quran, nor in what came be-
fore it.” If you could only see the wrongdoers, 
captive before their Lord, throwing back alle-
gations at one another. Those who were op-
pressed will say to those who were arrogant, 
“Were it not for you, we would have been be-
lievers.”  
32. Those who were arrogant will say to those 
who were oppressed, “Was it us who turned 
you away from guidance when it came to 
you? No indeed, you yourselves were sinful.”  
33. And those who were oppressed will say to 
those who were arrogant, “It was your 
scheming by night and day; as you instructed 
us to reject Allah, and to set up rivals to Him.” 
They will hide their remorse when they see 
the retribution. We will put yokes around the 
necks of those who disbelieved. Will they be 
repaid for anything other than what they 
used to do?  
34. We sent no warner to any town, without its 
affluent saying, “We reject what you are sent 
with.”  
35. And they say, “We have more wealth and 
more children, and we will not be punished.”  
36. Say, “My Lord spreads out His  bounty to 
whomever He wills, or restricts it; but most people do not know.”  
37. It is neither your wealth nor your children 
that bring you closer to Us, but it is he who 
162 
