## 27.  THE ANT   (an-Naml)  
35. I am sending them a gift, and will see what 
the envoys bring b ack.”  
36. When he came to Solomon, he said, “Are 
you supplying me with money? What Allah 
has given me is better than what He has given 
you. It is you who delight in your gift.  
37. Go back to them. We will come upon them 
with troops they cannot resist; and we will ex-
pel them from there, disgraced and humili-
ated.”  
38. He said, “O notables, which one of you will 
bring me her throne before they come to me in submission?”  
39. An imp of the sprites said, “I will bring it to 
you before you rise from your seat. I a m 
strong and reliable enough to do it.”  
40. He who had knowledge from the Book 
said, “I will bring it to you before your glance 
returns to you.” And when he saw it settled 
before him, he said, “This is from the grace of 
my Lord, to test me, whether I am gr ateful or 
ungrateful. He who is grateful, his gratitude 
is to his own credit; but he who is ungrate-
ful—my Lord is Independent and Generous.”  
41. He said, “Disguise her throne for her, and 
we shall see whether she will be guided, or re-
mains one of the misgu ided.”  
42. When she arrived, it was said, “Is your 
throne like this?” She said, “As if this is it.” 
“We were given knowledge before her, and 
we were submissive.”  
43. But she was prevented by what she wor-
shiped besides Allah; she belonged to a disbe-
lieving people.  
44. It was said to her, “Go inside the palace.” 
And when she saw it, she thought it was a 
deep pond, and she bared her legs. He said, “It is a palace paved with glass.” She said, “My 
Lord, I have done wrong to myself, and I have 
submitted with Solomon, to Allah, Lord of 
the Worlds.”  
45. And We sent to Thamood their brother 
Saleh: “Worship Allah.” But they became two disputing factions.  46. He said, “O my people, why are you quick 
to do evil rather than good? If only you would 
seek Allah’s forgivenes s, so that you may be 
shown mercy.”  
47. They said, “We consider you an ill omen, 
and those with you.” He said, “Your omen is with Allah. In fact, you are a people being 
tested.”  
48. In the city was a gang of nine who made 
mischief in the land and did no go od. 
49. They said, “Swear by Allah to one another 
that we will attack him and his family by 
night, and then tell his guardian, 'We did not witness the murder of his family, and we are 
being truthful.'“  
50. They planned a plan, and We planned a 
plan, but th ey did not notice.  
51. So note the outcome of their planning; We 
destroyed them and their people, altogether.  
52. Here are their homes, in ruins, on account 
of their iniquities. Surely in this is a sign for 
people who know.  
53. And We saved those who believed and 
were pious.  
54. And Lot, when he said to his people, “Do 
you commit lewdness with open eyes?  
55. Do you lust after men instead of women? 
You are truly ignorant people.”  
56. But the only response of his people was to 
say, “Expel the family of L ot from your town. 
They are purist people.”  
57. So We saved him and his family, except for 
his wife, whom We destined to be among the 
laggards.  
58. And We rained upon them a rain. Misera-
ble was the rain of those forewarned.  
59. Say, “Praise Allah, and peac e be upon His 
servants whom He has selected. Is Allah bet-ter, or what they associate?”  
60. Or, who created the heavens and the earth, 
and rains down water from the sky for you? 
With it We produce gardens full of beauty, whose trees you could not have produ ced. Is 
143 
