## 16.  THE BEE   (an-Nahl)  
reveals —they say, “You are an impostor.” But 
most of them do not know.  
102. Say, “The Holy Spirit has brought it down 
from your Lord, truthfully, in order to stabi-
lize those who believe, and as guidance and 
good news for those who submit.”  
103. We are well  aware that they say, “It is a hu-
man being who is teaching him.” But the 
tongue of him they allude to is foreign, while 
this is a clear Arabic tongue.  
104. Those who do not believe in Allah’s reve-
lations —Allah will not guide them, and for 
them is a painful  punishment.  
105. It is those who do not believe in Allah’s 
revelations who fabricate falsehood. These 
are the liars.  
106. Whoever renounces faith in Allah after 
having believed —except for someone who is 
compelled, while his heart rests securely in 
faith —but whoever willingly opens up his 
heart to disbelief —upon them falls wrath 
from Allah, and for them is a tremendous 
torment.  
107. That is because they have preferred the 
worldly life to the Hereafter, and because Al-
lah does not guide the people who refuse.  
108. It is they whom Allah has sealed their 
hearts, and their hearing, and their sight. It is they who are the heedless.  
109. There is no doubt that in the Hereafter 
they will be the losers.  
110. But then your Lord —for those who emi-
grated after being pers ecuted, then struggled 
and persevered —your Lord thereafter is For-
giving and Merciful.  
111. On the Day when every soul will come 
pleading for itself, and every soul will be paid 
in full for what it has done, and they will not 
be wronged.  
112. And Allah cite s the example of a town that 
was secure and peaceful, with its livelihood 
coming to it abundantly from every direc-tion. But then it turned unappreciative of Al-
lah’s blessings, so Allah made it taste the robe of hunger and fear, because of what they used 
to craft.  
113. A messenger from among them had come 
to them, but they denounced him, so the 
punishment seized them in the midst of their 
wrongdoing.  
114. Eat of the lawful and good things Allah has 
provided for you, and be thankful for Allah’s blessings, if it is Him that you serve.  
115. He has forbidden you carrion, and blood, 
and the flesh of swine, and anything conse-
crated to other than Allah. But if anyone is 
compelled by necessity, without being delib-
erate or malicious, then Allah is Forgiving 
and Mercif ul. 
116. And do not say of falsehood asserted by 
your tongues, “This is lawful, and this is un-
lawful,” in order to invent lies and attribute 
them to Allah. Those who invent lies and at-
tribute them to Allah will not succeed.  
117. A brief enjoyment —then they  will have a 
painful punishment.  
118. For those who are Jews, We have prohib-
ited what We related to you before. We did 
not wrong them, but they used to wrong their 
own selves.  
119. But towards those who do wrongs in igno-
rance, and then repent afterwards and re-
form, your Lord thereafter is Forgiving and 
Merciful.  
120. Abraham was an exemplary leader, de-
voted to Allah, a monotheist, and was not of the polytheists.  
121. Thankful for His blessings. He chose him, 
and guided him to a straight path.  
122. And We ga ve him goodness in this world, 
and in the Hereafter he will be among the righteous.  
123. Then We inspired you: “Follow the reli-
gion of Abraham, the Monotheist. He was 
not an idol -worshiper.”  
124. The Sabbath was decreed only for those 
who differed about it. Your Lord will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection re-
garding their differences.  
101 
