## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
We gave Jesus son of Mary the clear miracles, 
and We strengthened him with the Holy 
Spirit. Had Allah willed, those who succeeded 
them woul d not have fought one another, af-
ter the clear signs had come to them; but they 
disputed; some of them believed, and some of 
them disbelieved. Had Allah willed, they 
would not have fought one another; but Allah 
does whatever He desires.  
254. O you who beli eve! Spend from what We 
have given you, before a Day comes in which there is neither trading, nor friendship, nor 
intercession. The disbelievers are the wrong-
doers.  
255. Allah! There is no god except He, the Liv-
ing, the Everlasting. Neither slumber over-
takes Him, nor sleep. To Him belongs every-
thing in the heavens and everything on earth. 
Who is he that can intercede with Him except 
with His permission? He knows what is be-
fore them, and what is behind them; and they 
cannot grasp any of His knowledge, except as 
He wills. His Throne extends over the heav-
ens and the earth, and their preservation does not burden Him. He is the Most High, the 
Great.  
256. There shall be no compu lsion in religion; 
the right way has become distinct from the wrong way. Whoever renounces evil and be-
lieves in Allah has grasped the most trustwor-
thy handle; which does not break. Allah is 
Hearing and Knowing.  
257. Allah is the Lord of those who believe; He 
brings them out of darkness and into light. As 
for those who disbelieve, their lords are the evil ones; they bring them out of light and 
into darkness —these are the inmates of the 
Fire, in which they will abide forever.  
258. Have you not considered him who argued 
with Abraham about his Lord, because Allah had given him sovereignty? Abraham said, 
“My Lord is He who gives life and causes 
death.” He said, “I give life and cause death.” 
Abraham said, “Allah brings the sun from the East, so bring it from the West,” so the blas-
phemer was confounded. Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people.  259. Or like him who passed by a town col-
lapsed on its foundations. He said, “How can 
Allah revive this after its demise?” Thereupon 
Allah caused him to die for a hundred years, 
and then resurrected him. He said, “For how 
long have you tarried?” He said, “I have tar-
ried for a day, or part of a day.” He said, “No. 
You have tarried for a hundred years. Now 
look at your food and your drink —it has not 
spoiled —and look at your d onkey. We will 
make you a wonder for mankind. And look at the bones, how We arrange them, and then 
clothe them with flesh.” So when it became 
clear to him, he said, “I know that Allah has 
power over all things.”  
260. And when Abraham said, “My Lord, show 
me how You give life to the dead.” He said, 
“Have you not believed?” He said, “Yes, but 
to put my heart at ease.” He said, “Take four 
birds, and incline them to yourself, then place 
a part on each hill, then call to them; and they 
will come rushing to you.  And know that Al-
lah is Powerful and Wise.”  
261. The parable of those who spend their 
wealth in Allah’s way is that of a grain that produces seven spikes; in each spike is a hun-
dred grains. Allah multiplies for whom He 
wills. Allah is Bounteous and Knowing .  
262. Those who spend their wealth in the way 
of Allah, and then do not follow up what they 
spent with reminders of their generosity or 
with insults, will have their reward with their 
Lord —they have nothing to fear, nor shall 
they grieve.  
263. Kind words  and forgiveness are better 
than charity followed by insults. Allah is Rich 
and Clement.  
264. O you who believe! Do not nullify your 
charitable deeds with reminders and hurtful words, like him who spends his wealth to be 
seen by the people, and does not be lieve in 
Allah and the Last Day. His likeness is that of 
a smooth rock covered with soil: a downpour 
strikes it, and leaves it bare —they gain noth-
ing from their efforts. Allah does not guide 
the disbelieving people.  
15 
