## 22.  THE PILGRIMAGE   (al-Hajj)  
scalding water will be poured over their 
heads.  
20. Melting their insides and their skins.  
21. And they will have maces of iron.  
22. Whenever th ey try to escape the gloom, 
they will be driven back to it: “Taste the suf-fering of burning.”  
23. But Allah will admit those who believe and 
do good deeds into Gardens beneath which 
rivers flow. They will be decorated therein 
with bracelets of gold and pearls, and their 
garments therein will be of silk.  
24. They were guided to purity of speech. They 
were guided to the path of the Most Praised.  
25. As for those who disbelieve and repel from 
Allah’s path and from the Sacred Mosque —
which We have designated for  all mankind 
equally, whether residing therein or passing 
through— and seek to commit sacrilege 
therein —We will make him taste of a painful 
punishment.  
26. We showed Abraham the location of the 
House: “Do not associate anything with Me; 
and purify My House for those who circle 
around, and those who stand to pray, and 
those who kneel and prostrate.”  
27. And announce the pilgrimage to human-
ity. They will come to you on foot, and on 
every transport. They will come from every 
distant point.  
28. That they may wit ness the benefits for 
themselves, and celebrate the name of Allah 
during the appointed days, for providing 
them with the animal livestock. So eat from 
it, and feed the unfortunate poor.  
29. Then let them perform their acts of cleans-
ing, and fulfill their vows, and circle around 
the Ancient House.  
30. All that. Whoever venerates the sanctities 
of Allah— it is good for him with his Lord. All 
livestock are permitted to you, except what is 
recited to you. So stay away from the abomi-
nation of idols, and stay away from perjury.  31. Being true to Allah, without associating an-
ything with Him. Whoever associates any-
thing with Allah— it is as though he has fallen 
from the sky, and is snatched by the birds, or 
is swept away by the wind to a distant abyss.  
32. So it is. Whoever venerates the sacraments 
of Allah— it is from the piety of the hearts.  
33. In them are benefits for you until a certain 
time. Then their place is by the Ancient 
House.  
34. We have appointed a rite for every nation, 
that they may commemorate Allah’s name 
over the livestock He has provided for them. Your God is One God, so to Him submit, and 
announce good news to the humble.  
35. Those whose hearts tremble when Allah is 
mentioned, and those who endure what has befallen them, and those who perform the 
prayer and spend from what We have pro-
vided for them.  
36. We have made the animal offerings em-
blems of Allah for you. In them is goodness 
for you. So pronounce Allah’s name upon 
them as they line up. Then, when they have 
fallen on their sides, eat of them and feed the 
contented and the beggar. Thus We have sub-
jected them to you, that you may be thankful.  
37. Neither their flesh, nor their blood, ever 
reaches Allah. What reaches Him is the right-
eousness from you. Thus He subdued them 
to you, that you may glori fy Allah for guiding 
you. And give good news to the charitable.  
38. Allah defends those who believe. Allah 
does not love any ungrateful traitor.  
39. Permission is given to those who are 
fought against, and Allah is Able to give them 
victory.  
40. Those who were unjustly evicted from 
their homes, merely for saying, “Our Lord is 
Allah.” Were it not that Allah repels people by means of others: monasteries, churches, 
synagogues, and mosques —where the name 
of Allah is mentioned much —would have 
been demolished. Al lah supports whoever 
supports Him. Allah is Strong and Mighty.  
124 
