## 25.  THE CRITERION   (al-Furqan)  
31. Likewise, to every prophet We assign ene-
mies from among the wicked. But your Lord 
suffices as a Guide and Savior.  
32. Those who disbelieve say, “Why was the 
Quran not revealed to him at once?” Thus in 
order to strengthen your heart thereby, and 
We revealed it in stages.  
33. Whatever argument they come to you 
with, We provide you with the truth, and a 
better exposition.  
34. Those who are herded into Hell on their 
faces —those are in a worse position, and fur-
ther astray from the way.  
35. We gave Moses the Scripture, and ap-
pointe d his brother Aaron as his assistant.  
36. We said, “Go to the people who rejected 
Our signs,” and We destroyed them com-pletely.  
37. And the people of Noah: when they re-
jected the messengers, We drowned them, 
and made them a lesson for mankind. We 
have prep ared for the wrongdoers a painful 
retribution.  
38. And Aad, and Thamood, and the inhabit-
ants of Arras, and many generations in be-
tween.  
39. To each We presented the parables; and 
each We devastated utterly.  
40. And they came upon the city that was 
drenched  by the terrible rain. Did they not 
see it? But they do not expect resurrection.  
41. And when they see you, they take you for 
nothing but mockery: “Is this the one Allah 
sent as a messenger?”  
42. “He nearly led us away from our gods, had 
we not patiently adhered to them.” But they will know, when they witness the torment, 
who is further away from the way.  
43. Have you seen him who chose his desire as 
his god? Would you be an agent for him?  
44. Or do you assume that most of them hear 
or understand? They are just like cattle, but 
even more errant in their way.  45. Do you not see how your Lord extends the 
shadow? Had He willed, He could have made 
it still. And We made the sun a pointer to it.  
46. Then We withdraw it towards Us gradu-
ally. 
47. And it is He who ma de the night a covering 
for you, and sleep for rest; and He made the 
day a revival.  
48. And it is He who sends the winds, bringing 
advance news of His mercy; and We send 
down from the sky pure water.  
49. To revive dead lands thereby, and to pro-
vide drink f or the multitude of animals and 
humans We created.  
50. We have circulated it among them, that 
they may reflect, but most people persist in 
thanklessness.  
51. Had We willed, We could have sent to 
every town a warner.  
52. So do not obey the disbelievers, but strive 
against them with it, a mighty struggle.  
53. And it is He who merged the two seas; this 
one fresh and sweet, and that one salty and 
bitter; and He placed between them a barrier, 
and an impassable boundary.  
54. And it is He who, from fluid, created the 
human being. Then He made relationships 
through marriage and mating. Your Lord is 
Omnipotent.  
55. And yet, instead of Allah, they serve what 
neither profits them nor harms them. The 
disbeliever has always turned his back on his 
Lord.  
56. We sent you only as a herald of good news 
and a warner.  
57. Say, “I ask of you no payment for this —
only that whoever wills may take a path to his 
Lord.”  
58. And put your trust in the Living, the One 
who never dies; and celebrate His praise. He 
suffices as the All -Infor med Knower of the 
faults of His creatures.  
59. He who created the heavens and the earth 
and everything between them in six days, 
135 
