## 39.  THRONGS   (az-Zumar)  
26. Allah made them taste disgrace in the pre-
sent life, but the punishment of the Hereafter 
is worse, if they only knew.  
27. We have cited in this Quran for mankind 
every ideal, that they may take heed.  
28. An Arabic Quran, without any defect, so 
they may become righteous.  
29. Allah cites the example of a man shared by 
partners at odds, and a man belonging exclu-sively to one man. Are they equal in status? Praise be to All ah, but most of them do not 
know.  
30. You will die, and they will die.  
31. Then, on the Day of Resurrection, you will 
be quarrelling before your Lord.  
32. Who is more evil than he who lies about 
Allah, and denies the truth when it has come 
to him? Is there  not in Hell room for the un-
grateful?  
33. But he who promotes the truth, and testi-
fies to it —these are the righteous.  
34. They will have whatever they please with 
their Lord. Such is the reward for the virtu-
ous. 
35. Allah will acquit them of the worst of t heir 
deeds, and will reward them according to the 
best of what they used to do.  
36. Is Allah not enough for His servant? And 
they frighten you with those besides Him. Whomever Allah sends astray, for him there 
is no guide.  
37. And whomever Allah guides, for him there 
is no misleader. Is Allah not Powerful and 
Vengeful?  
38. And if you asked them, “Who created the 
heavens and the earth?” they would say, “Al-
lah.” Say, “Have you seen those you pray to instead of Allah? If Allah willed any harm for 
me, can they lift His harm? And if He willed 
a blessing for me, can they hold back His 
mercy?” Say, “Allah suffices for me. On Him 
the reliant rely.”  
39. Say: “O my people, work according to your 
ability; and so will I. Then you will know.  40. Who will receive a humiliating punish-
ment, and on whom will fall a lasting tor-ment.”  
41. We sent down upon you the Book for man-
kind in truth. He who follows guidance does 
so for the good of his soul. And he who strays 
in error does so to its detriment. You are not 
their overseer.  
42. Allah takes the souls at the time of their 
death, and those that have not died during 
their sleep. He retains those for which He has 
decreed death, and He releases the others un-
til a predetermined time. In that are signs for 
people who reflect.  
43. Or have they chosen intercessors other 
than Allah? Say, “Even though they have no 
power over anything, and are devoid of rea-
son?”  
44. Say, “All intercession is up to Allah. To 
Him belongs the kingdom of the heavens and 
the earth. Then to Him you will be retur ned.”  
45. When Allah alone is mentioned, the hearts 
of those who do not believe in the Hereafter 
shrink with resentment. But when those other than Him are mentioned, they become 
filled with joy.  
46. Say, “Our God, Initiator of the heavens and 
the earth, Kn ower of all secrets and declara-
tions. You will judge between your servants regarding what they had differed about.”  
47. If those who did wrong owned everything 
on earth, and the like of it with it, they would redeem themselves with it from the terrible 
suffering on the Day of Resurrection. But 
there will appear to them from Allah what 
they never anticipated.  
48. There will appear to them the evils of their 
deeds, and they will be surrounded by what they used to ridicule.  
49. When adversity touches the huma n being, 
he calls on Us. But then, when We favor him 
with a blessing from Us, he says, “I have at-
tained this by virtue of my knowledge.” How-
ever, it is a test, but most of them do not 
know.  
176 
