## 39.  THRONGS   (az-Zumar)  
62. And they will say, “What is it with us that 
we do not see men we used to count among 
the wicked?  
63. Did we take them for mockery, or have our 
eyes swerved from them?  
64. This is certainly true —the feuding of the 
people of the Fire.  
65. Say, “I am only a warner, and there is no 
god except Allah— the One, the Conqueror.  
66. The Lord of the heavens and the earth, and 
everything between them; the Mighty, the 
Forgiver.”  
67. Say, “It is a message of great importance.  
68. From which you are  turning away.  
69. I have no knowledge of the Highest Assem-
bly as they dispute.  
70. It is only revealed to me that I am a clear 
warner.”  
71. Your Lord said to the angels, “I am creating 
a human being from clay.  
72. When I have formed him, and breathed 
into him of My spirit, fall prostrate before 
him.  
73. So the angels fell prostrate, all of them.  
74. Except for Satan. He was too proud, and 
one of the faithless.  
75. He said, “O Satan, what prevented you 
from prostrating before what I created with 
My Own hand s? Are you too proud, or were 
you one of the exalted?”  
76. He said, “I am better than he; You created 
me from fire, and You created him from 
clay.”  
77. He said, “Then get out of here! You are an 
outcast!  
78. And My curse will be upon you until the 
Day of J udgment.”  
79. He said, “Lord, defer me until the Day they 
are resurrected.”  
80. He said, “You are one of those deferred.  
81. Until the Day of the Time Appointed.”  82. He said, “By Your majesty, I will seduce 
them all.  
83. Except for your loyal servants amo ng 
them.”  
84. He said, “The truth is, and I say the truth.  
85. I will fill Hell with you, and with every one 
of them who follows you.”  
86. Say, “I ask of you no wage for this, and I am 
not a pretender.  
87. It is but a reminder to mankind.  
88. And you will know its message after a 
while.”  
  
39. THRONGS  
(az-Zumar ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. The revelation of the Book is from Allah, the 
Mighty and Wise.  
2. We sent down to you the Book with the 
truth, so serve Allah, devoting your relig ion 
to Him.  
3. Is not to Allah that sincere faith is due? As 
for those who take guardians besides Him, 
“We only worship them that they may bring 
us nearer to Allah.” Allah will judge between 
them regarding their differences. Allah does 
not guide the lying blasphemer.  
4. If Allah wanted to have a son, He could have 
selected from His creation at will. Glory be to 
Him. He is Allah, the One, the Prevailing.  
5. He created the heavens and the earth with 
reason. He wraps the night around the day, and He wraps the day around the night. And 
He regulates the sun and the moon, each run-
ning along a specific course. He is indeed the 
Almighty, the Forgiver.  
6. He created you from one person, then made 
from it its mate, and brought down livestock 
for you —eight kinds in pai rs. He creates you 
in the wombs of your mothers, in successive 
174 
