## 45.  KNEELING   (al-Jathiyah)  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Ha, Meem.  
2. The revelation of the Book is from Allah, 
the Exalted in Might, the Wise.  
3. In the heavens and the earth are proofs for 
the believers.  
4. And in your own creation, and in the crea-
tures He scattered, are signs for people of 
firm faith.  
5. And in the alternation of night and day, and 
in the sustenance Allah sends  down from the 
sky, with which He revives the earth after its 
death, and in the circulation of the winds, are 
marvels for people who reason.  
6. These are Allah’s Verses which We recite to 
you in truth. In which message, after Allah 
and His revelations, wil l they believe?  
7. Woe to every sinful liar.  
8. Who hears Allah's revelations being recited 
to him, yet he persists arrogantly, as though he did not hear them. Announce to him a 
painful punishment.  
9. And when he learns something of Our rev-
elations, he tak es them in mockery. For such 
there is a shameful punishment.  
10. Beyond them lies Hell. What they have 
earned will not benefit them at all, nor will 
those they adopted as lords instead of Allah. 
They will have a terrible punishment.  
11. This is guidance. T hose who blaspheme 
their Lord’s revelations will have a punish-ment of agonizing pain.  
12. It is Allah who placed the sea at your ser-
vice, so that ships may run through it by His 
command, and that you may seek of His 
bounty, and that you may give thanks.  
13. And He placed at your service whatever is 
in the heavens and whatever is on earth —all 
is from Him. In that are signs for a people who think.  
14. Tell those who believe to forgive those who 
do not hope for the Days of Allah. He will fully recompense peop le for whatever they 
have earned.  
15. Whoever does a good deed, it is for his soul; 
and whoever commits evil, it is against it; then to your Lord you will be returned.  
16. We gave the Children of Israel the Book, 
and wisdom, and prophecy; and We pro-
vided t hem with the good things; and We 
gave them advantage over all other people.  
17. And We gave them precise rulings. They 
fell into dispute only after knowledge came to them, out of mutual rivalry. Your Lord will 
judge between them on the Day of Resurrec-
tion regarding the things they differed about.  
18. Then We set you upon a pathway of faith, 
so follow it, and do not follow the inclina-
tions of those who do not know.  
19. They will not help you against Allah in any 
way. The wrongdoers are allies of one an-
other,  while Allah is the Protector of the 
righteous.  
20. This is an illumination for mankind, and 
guidance, and mercy for people who believe 
with certainty.  
21. Do those who perpetrate the evil deeds as-
sume that We will regard them as equal to those who believe  and do righteous deeds, 
whether in their life or their death? Evil is 
their judgment!  
22. Allah created the heavens and the earth 
with justice, so that every soul will be repaid 
for what it has earned. And they will not be wronged.  
23. Have you considered  him who has taken 
his desire for his god? Allah has knowingly 
led him astray, and has sealed his hearing and 
his heart, and has placed a veil over his vision. 
Who will guide him after Allah? Will you not 
reflect?  
24. And they say, “There is nothing but this 
our present life; we die and we live, and noth-
ing destroys us except time.” But they have no 
knowledge of that; they are only guessing.  
191 
