## 18.  THE CAVE   (al-Kahf)  
and had taught him knowledge from Our 
Own.  
66. Moses said to him, “May I follow you, so 
that you may teach me some of the guidance 
you were taught?”  
67. He said, “You will not be able to endure 
with me.  
68. And how will you endure what you have no 
knowledge of?”  
69. He said, “You will find me, Allah willing, 
patient; and I will not disobey you in any or-der of yours.”  
70. He said, “If you follow me, do not ask me 
about anything, until I myself make mention of it t o you.”  
71. So they set out. Until, when they had 
boarded the boat, he holed it. He said, “Did 
you hole it, to drown its passengers? You 
have done something awful.”  
72. He said, “Did I not tell you that you will not 
be able to endure with me?”  
73. He said,  “Do not rebuke me for forgetting, 
and do not make my course difficult for me.”  
74. Then they set out. Until, when they en-
countered a boy, he killed him. He said, “Did 
you kill a pure soul, who killed no one? You 
have done something terrible.”  
75. He said,  “Did I not tell you that you will not 
be able to endure with me?”  
76. He said, “If I ask you about anything after 
this, then do not keep company with me. You 
have received excuses from me.”  
77. So they set out. Until, when they reached 
the people of a tow n, they asked them for 
food, but they refused to offer them hospital-
ity. There they found a wall about to collapse, 
and he repaired it. He said, “If you wanted, 
you could have obtained a payment for it.”  
78. He said, “This is the parting between you 
and me . I will tell you the interpretation of 
what you were unable to endure.  
79. As for the boat, it belonged to paupers 
working at sea. I wanted to damage it because there was a king coming after them seizing 
every boat by force.  
80. As for the boy, his parent s were believers, 
and we feared he would overwhelm them 
with oppression and disbelief.  
81. So we wanted their Lord to replace him 
with someone better in purity, and closer to 
mercy.  
82. And as for the wall, it belonged to two or-
phaned boys in the town. Beneath it was a treasure that belonged to them. Their father 
was a righteous man. Your Lord wanted them 
to reach their maturity, and then extract their 
treasure —as a mercy from your Lord. I did 
not do it of my own accord. This is the inter-
pretation of what y ou were unable to en-
dure.”  
83. And they ask you about Zul -Qarnain. Say, 
“I will tell you something about him.”  
84. We established him on earth, and gave him 
all kinds of means.  
85. He pursued a certain course.  
86. Until, when he reached the setting of the 
sun, he found it setting in a murky spring, 
and found a people in its vicinity. We said, “O 
Zul-Qarnain, you may either inflict a penalty, 
or else treat them kindly.”  
87. He said, “As for him who does wrong, we 
will penalize him, then he will be returned to his Lord, and He will punish him with an un-
heard -of torment.  
88. “But as for him who believes and acts right-
eously, he will have the finest reward, and We 
will speak to him of Our command with 
ease.”  
89. Then he pursued a course.  
90. Until, when he reac hed the rising of the 
sun, he found it rising on a people for whom We had provided no shelter from it.  
91. And so it was. We had full knowledge of 
what he had.  
92. Then he pursued a course.  
93. Until, when he reached the point separat-
ing the two barriers, he found beside them a 
110 
