## 28.  HISTORY   (al-Qasas)  
38. Pharaoh said, “O nobles, I know of no god 
for you other than me. So fire -up the bricks 
for me O Hamaan, and build me a tower, that 
I may ascend to the God of Moses, though I 
think he is a liar.”  
39. He and his troops acted arrogantly in the 
land, with no justification. They thought they would not be returned to Us.  
40. So We seized him, and his troops, and We 
threw them into the sea. Observe, therefore, 
what was the end of the oppressors.  
41. And We made them leaders calling to the 
Fire. And on Resurrection Day, they will not 
be saved.  
42. And We pursued them in this world with a 
curse. And on Resurrection Day, they will be among the despised.  
43. We gave Moses the Scripture after We had 
annihi lated the previous generations; as an il-
lumination for mankind, and guidance, and mercy, so that they may remember.  
44. You were not on the Western Side when 
We decreed the command to Moses, nor 
were you among the witnesses.  
45. But We established many gen erations, and 
time took its toll on them. Nor were you among the people of Median, reciting Our 
revelations to them. But We kept sending 
messengers.  
46. Nor were you by the side of the Mount 
when We proclaimed. Rather, it was a mercy 
from your Lord, that y ou may warn people 
who received no warner before you, so that 
they may take heed.  
47. Otherwise, if a calamity befell them as a re-
sult of what their hands have perpetrated, 
they would say, “Our Lord, if only You had sent us a messenger, we would have follo wed 
Your revelations, and been among the believ-
ers.”  
48. But when the truth came to them from Us, 
they said, “If only he was given the like of 
what was given to Moses.” Did they not dis-
believe in what was given to Moses in the past? They said, “Two works o f magic back-
ing one another.” And they said, “We are dis-believing in both.”  
49. Say, “Then bring a scripture from Allah, 
more conductive to guidance than both, and 
I will follow it, if you are truthful.”  
50. But if they fail to respond to you, know that 
they follow their fancies. And who is more 
lost than him who follows his fancy without guidance from Allah? Allah does not guide 
the unjust people.  
51. We have delivered the Word to them, that 
they may remember.  
52. Those to whom We gave the Scripture be-
fore it believe in it.  
53. When it is recited to them, they say, “We 
have believed in it; it is the truth from our 
Lord; we were Muslims prior to it.”  
54. These will be given their reward twice, be-
cause they persevered; and they counter evil 
with good; and from Our provisions to them, 
they give.  
55. And when they hear vain talk, they avoid 
it, and say, “We have our deeds, and you have 
your deeds; peace be upon you; we do not de-
sire the ignorant.”  
56. You cannot guide whom you love, but Al-
lah guides whom He wills, and He knows best 
those who are guided.  
57. And they say, “If we follow the guidance 
with you, we will be snatched from our land.” Did We not establish for them a Safe Sanctu-
ary, to which are brought all kinds of fruits, 
as provision from Ourselves? But most of 
them do not know.  
58. And how many a city did We destroy for 
turning unappreciative of its livelihood? Here 
are their homes, uninhabited after them, ex-cept for a few. And We became the Inheri-
tors.  
59. Your Lord never destroys cities without 
first sending a messenger in their midst, re-
citing to them Our revelations. And We 
never destroy the cities, unless their people 
are wrongdoers.  
147 
