## 17.  THE NIGHT JOURNEY   (al-Isra’)  
67. When harm afflicts you at sea, those you 
pray to vanish, except for Him. But when He 
saves you to land, y ou turn away. The human 
being is ever thankless.  
68. Are you confident that He will not cause a 
track of land to cave in beneath you, or un-leash a tornado against you, and then you 
find no protector?  
69. Or are you confident that He will not re-
turn you to it once again, and unleash a hur-
ricane against you, and drown you for your 
ingratitude? Then you will find no helper 
against Us.  
70. We have honored the Children of Adam, 
and carried them on land and sea, and pro-
vided them with good things, and greatly fa-
vored them over many of those We created.  
71. On the Day when We call every people with 
their leader. Whoever is given his record in 
his right hand —these will read their record, 
and they will not be wronged one bit.  
72. But whoever is blind in this, he will  be 
blind in the Hereafter, and further astray 
from the way.  
73. They almost lured you away from what We 
have revealed to you, so that you would in-
vent something else in Our name. In that 
case, they would have taken you for a friend.  
74. Had We not given y ou stability, you might 
have inclined towards them a little.  
75. Then We would have made you taste dou-
ble in life, and double at death; then you 
would have found for yourself no helper 
against Us.  
76. They almost provoked you, to expel you 
from the land. In that case, they would not have lasted after you, except briefly.  
77. The tradition of the messengers We sent 
before you —you will find no change in Our 
rules.  
78. Perform the prayer at the decline of the 
sun, until the darkness of the night; and the 
Quran at dawn. The Quran at dawn is wit-
nessed.  79. And keep vigil with it during parts of the 
night, as an extra prayer. Perhaps your Lord 
will raise you to a laudable position.  
80. And say, “My Lord, lead me in through an 
entry of truth, and lead me out throug h an 
exit of truth, and grant me from You a sup-porting power.”  
81. And say, “The truth has come, and false-
hood has withered away; for falsehood is 
bound to wither away.”  
82. We send down in the Quran healing and 
mercy for the believers, but it increases th e 
wrongdoers only in loss.  
83. When We bless the human being, he turns 
away and distances himself. But when adver-
sity touches him, he is in despair.  
84. Say, “Each does according to his disposi-
tion. Your Lord knows best who is better 
guided in the way.”  
85. And they ask you about the Spirit. Say, 
“The Spirit belongs to the domain of my 
Lord; and you were given only little 
knowledge.”  
86. If We willed, We could take away what We 
revealed to you. Then you will find for your-self no protecting guardian against Us.  
87. Except through a mercy from your Lord. 
His favors upon you have been great.  
88. Say, “If mankind and jinn came together to 
produce the like of this Quran, they could 
never produce the like of it, even if they 
backed up one another.”  
89. We have dis played for mankind in this 
Quran every kind of similitude, but most people insist on denying the truth.  
90. And they said, “We will not believe in you 
unless you make a spring burst from the 
ground for us.  
91. Or you have a garden of palms and vines; 
then cause rivers to gush pouring through 
them.  
92. Or make the sky fall on us in pieces, as you 
claim, or bring Allah and the angels before us.  
105 
