## 23.  THE BELIEVERS   (al-Mu’minun)  
44. Then We sent Our messengers in succes-
sion. Every time a messenger came to his 
community, they called him a liar. So We 
mad e them follow one another, and made 
them history. So away with a people who do not believe.  
45. Then We sent Moses and his brother Aa-
ron, with Our signs and a clear authority.  
46. To Pharaoh and his nobles, but they turned 
arrogant. They were oppressive pe ople.  
47. They said, “Are we to believe in two mor-
tals like us, and their people are our slaves?”  
48. So they called them liars, and thus were 
among those destroyed.  
49. And We gave Moses the Scripture, that 
they may be guided.  
50. And We made Mary’s son a nd his mother 
a sign, and We sheltered them on high 
ground with security and flowing springs.  
51. O messengers, eat of the good things, and 
act with integrity. I am aware of what you do.  
52. This nation of yours is one nation, and I 
am your Lord, so fear M e. 
53. But they tore themselves into sects; each 
party happy with what they have.  
54. So leave them in their bewilderment until 
a time.  
55. Do they assume that, in furnishing them 
with wealth and children.  
56. We race to give them the good things? In 
fact, they have no idea.  
57. Those who, from awe of their Lord, are 
fearful.  
58. And those who believe in their Lord’s 
Verses.  
59. And those who associate no partners with 
their Lord.  
60. And those who give what they give, while 
their hearts quake, knowing that  to their Lord 
they will return.  
61. It is they who race towards goodness. It is 
they who will reach it first.  62. We never burden any soul beyond its ca-
pacity. And with Us is a record that tells the truth, and they will not be wronged.  
63. But their heart s are puzzled because of this; 
and they have deeds that do not conform to 
this, which they continue to perpetrate.  
64. Until, when We seize the decadent among 
them with torment, they begin to groan.  
65. Do not groan today. You will receive no 
help from Us.  
66. My Verses were recited to you, but you 
turned back on your heels.  
67. Arrogant towards it— talked nonsense 
about it —disregarded it.  
68. Have they not pondered the Word? Or has 
there come to them what came not to their 
forefathers of old?  
69. Or is it t hat they did not recognize their 
messenger, so they are denying him?  
70. Or do they say, “He is possessed?” In fact, 
he brought them the truth, but most of them hate the truth.  
71. If the truth conformed to their desires, the 
heavens, the earth, and everyo ne in them 
would have gone to ruin. In fact, We have 
given them their message, but they keep 
avoiding their message.  
72. Or are you asking them for a payment? The 
revenue from your Lord is better, and He is 
the Best of providers.  
73. You are inviting them to a straight path.  
74. But those who do not believe in the Here-
after are swerving from the path.  
75. Even if We had mercy on them, and re-
lieved their problems, they would still blindly persist in their defiance.  
76. We have already gripped them with suffer-
ing, but they did not surrender to their Lord, 
nor did they humble themselves.  
77. Until, when We have opened before them 
a gate of intense agony, at once they will des-
pair.  
128 
