## 24.  THE LIGHT   (an-Nur)  
by a blessed tree, an oli ve tree, neither eastern 
nor western. Its oil would almost illuminate, 
even if no fire has touched it. Light upon 
Light. Allah guides to His light whomever He 
wills. Allah thus cites the parables for the peo-
ple. Allah is cognizant of everything.  
36. In hou ses which Allah has permitted to be 
raised, and His name is celebrated therein. 
He is glorified therein, morning and evening.  
37. By men who neither trading nor commerce 
distracts them from Allah’s remembrance, 
and from performing the prayers, and from giving alms. They fear a Day when hearts and 
sights are overturned.  
38. Allah will reward them according to the 
best of what they did, and He will increase 
them from His bounty. Allah provides for 
whomever He wills without reckoning.  
39. As for those who disb elieve, their works are 
like a mirage in a desert. The thirsty assumes 
it is to be water. Until, when he has reached 
it, he finds it to be nothing, but there he finds 
Allah, Who settles his account in full. Allah is 
swift in reckoning.  
40. Or like utter da rkness in a vast ocean, cov-
ered by waves, above which are waves, above 
which is fog. Darkness upon darkness. If he brings out his hand, he will hardly see it. He 
to whom Allah has not granted a light has no 
light.  
41. Do you not realize that Allah is glori fied by 
whatever is in the heavens and the earth, and 
even by the birds in formation? Each knows 
its prayer and its manner of praise. Allah 
knows well what they do.  
42. To Allah belongs the dominion of the 
heavens and the earth, and to Allah is the ul-timat e return.  
43. Have you not seen how Allah propels the 
clouds, then brings them together, then piles 
them into a heap, and you see rain drops 
emerging from its midst? How He brings 
down loads of hail from the sky, striking with 
it whomever He wills, and div erting it from 
whomever He wills? The flash of its lighten-
ing almost snatches the sight away.  44. Allah alternates the night and the day. In 
that is a lesson for those who have insight.  
45. Allah created every living creature from 
water. Some of them crawl  on their bellies, 
and some walk on two feet, and others walk 
on four. Allah creates whatever He wills. Al-lah is Capable of everything.  
46. We sent down enlightening revelations, 
and Allah guides whomever He wills to a 
straight path.  
47. And they say, “We have believed in Allah 
and the Messenger, and we obey,” but some 
of them turn away afterwards. These are not 
believers.  
48. And when they are called to Allah and His 
Messenger, in order to judge between them, some of them refuse.  
49. But if justice is on t heir side, they accept it 
willingly.  
50. Is there sickness in their hearts? Or are they 
suspicious? Or do they fear that Allah may do 
them injustice? Or His Messenger? In fact, 
they themselves are the unjust.  
51. The response of the believers, when they 
are called to Allah and His Messenger in or-
der to judge between them, is to say, “We hear and we obey.” These are the successful.  
52. Whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger, 
and fears Allah, and is conscious of Him —
these are the winners.  
53. And they swear by  Allah with their solemn 
oaths, that if you commanded them, they 
would mobilize. Say, “Do not swear. Obedi-
ence will be recognized. Allah is experienced 
with what you do.”  
54. Say, “Obey Allah and obey the Messenger.” 
But if they turn away, then he is respo nsible 
for his obligations, and you are responsible 
for your obligations. And if you obey him, 
you will be guided. It is only incumbent on 
the Messenger to deliver the Clarifying Mes-
sage.  
55. Allah has promised those of you who be-
lieve and do righteous deeds, that He will 
make them successors on earth, as He made 
132 
