## 43.  DECORATIONS   (az-Zukhruf)  
mutual consultation, and give of what We 
have provided them.  
39. And those who, when wronged, defend 
themselves.  
40. The repayment of a bad action is one 
equivalent to it. But whoever pardons and 
makes reconciliation, his reward lies with Al-
lah. He does not love the unjust.  
41. As for those who retaliate after bei ng 
wronged, there is no blame on them.  
42. Blame lies on those who wrong people, and 
commit aggression in the land without right. 
These will have a painful punishment.  
43. But whoever endures patiently and for-
gives —that is a sign of real resolve.  
44. Whoe ver Allah leaves astray has no protec-
tor apart from Him. And you will see the 
transgressors, when they see the torment, 
saying, “Is there a way of going back?”  
45. And you will see them exposed to it, cow-
ering from disgrace, looking with concealed 
eyes. Th ose who believed will say, “The losers 
are those who lost themselves and their fam-
ilies on the Day of Resurrection.” Indeed, the 
evildoers are in a lasting torment.  
46. They will have no allies to support them 
against Allah. Whomever Allah leaves astray 
has no way out.  
47. Respond to your Lord before there comes 
from Allah a Day that cannot be turned back. 
You will have no refuge on that Day, and no 
possibility of denial.  
48. But if they turn away —We did not send 
you as a guardian over them. Your only duty 
is communication. Whenever We let man taste mercy from Us, he rejoices in it; but 
when misfortune befalls them, as a conse-
quence of what their hands have perpetrated, 
man turns blasphemous.  
49. To Allah belongs the dominion of the 
heavens and the earth. He  creates whatever 
He wills. He grants daughters to whomever 
He wills, and He grants sons to whomever He 
wills.  50. Or He combines them together, males and 
females; and He renders whomever He wills 
sterile. He is Knowledgeable and Capable.  
51. It is not for  any human that Allah should 
speak to him, except by inspiration, or from 
behind a veil, or by sending a messenger to 
reveal by His permission whatever He wills. 
He is All -High, All -Wise.  
52. We thus inspired you spiritually, by Our 
command. You did not kn ow what the Scrip-
ture is, nor what faith is, but We made it a 
light, with which We guide whomever We 
will of Our servants. You surely guide to a 
straight path.  
53. The path of Allah, to whom belongs every-
thing in the heavens and everything on earth. 
Indeed, to Allah all matters revert.  
  
43. DECORATIONS  
(az-Zukhruf ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Ha, Meem.  
2. By the Book that makes things clear.  
3. We made it an Arabic Quran, so that you 
may understand.  
4. And it is with Us, in the Source Book, sub-
lime and wise.  
5. Shall We hold back the Reminder from you, 
since you are a transgressing people?  
6. How many a prophet did We send to the 
ancients?  
7. No messenger came to them, but they ridi-
culed him.  
8.  We destroyed people more powerful than 
they, and so the example of the ancients has 
passed away.  
9. And if you asked them, “Who created the 
heavens and the earth?” They would say, 
“The Mighty, the Knower created them.”  
186 
