## 19.  MARY   (Maryam)  
10. He said, “My Lord, give me a sign.” He said, 
“Your sign is that you will not speak to the 
people for three nights straight.”  
11. And he came out to his people, from the 
sanctuary, and signaled to them to p raise 
morning and evening.  
12. “O John, hold on to the Scripture firmly,” 
and We gave him wisdom in his youth.  
13. And tenderness from Us, and innocence. 
He was devout.  
14. And kind to his parents; and he was not a 
disobedient tyrant.  
15. And peace be upon  him the day he was 
born, and the day he dies, and the Day he is 
raised alive.  
16. And mention in the Scripture Mary, when 
she withdrew from her people to an eastern 
location.  
17. She screened herself away from them, and 
We sent to her Our spirit, and He a ppeared 
to her as an immaculate human.  
18. She said, “I take refuge from you in the 
Most Merciful, should you be righteous.”  
19. He said, “I am only the messenger of your 
Lord, to give you the gift of a pure son.”  
20. She said, “How can I have a son, when no 
man has touched me, and I was never un-chaste?”  
21. He said, “Thus said your Lord, `It is easy 
for Me, and We will make him a sign for hu-manity, and a mercy from Us. It is a matter 
already decided.'“  
22. So she carried him, and secluded herself 
with him in a remote place.  
23. The labor -pains came upon her, by the 
trunk of a palm -tree. She said, “I wish I had 
died before this, and been completely forgot-
ten.”  
24. Whereupon he called her from beneath 
her: “Do not worry; your Lord has placed a 
stream beneath you.  
25. And shake the trunk of the palm -tree to-
wards you, and it will drop ripe dates by you.”  26. “So eat, and drink, and be consoled. And if 
you see any human, say, ‘I have vowed a fast 
to the Most Gracious, so I will not speak to 
any human today.'“  
27. Then she came to her people, carrying him. 
They said, “O Mary, you have done some-
thing terrible.  
28. O sister of Aaron, your father was not an 
evil man, and your mother was not a whore.”  
29. So she pointed to him. They said, “How 
can we speak to an infant  in the crib?”  
30. He said, “I am the servant of Allah. He has 
given me the Scripture, and made me a 
prophet.  
31. And has made me blessed wherever I may 
be; and has enjoined on me prayer and char-
ity, so long as I live.  
32. And kind to my mother, and He did not 
make me a disobedient rebel.  
33. So Peace is upon me the day I was born, 
and the day I die, and the Day I get resur-rected alive.”  
34. That is Jesus son of Mary —the Word of 
truth about which they doubt.  
35. It is not for Allah to have a child —glory be 
to Him. To have anything done, He says to it, “Be,” and it becomes.  
36. “Allah is my Lord and your Lord, so wor-
ship Him. That is a straight path.”  
37. But the various factions differed among 
themselves. So woe to those who disbelieve from the scene of a tr emendous Day.  
38. Listen to them and watch for them the Day 
they come to Us. But the wrongdoers today 
are completely lost.  
39. And warn them of the Day of Regret, when 
the matter will be concluded. Yet they are 
heedless, and they do not believe.  
40. It is We who will inherit the earth and eve-
ryone on it, and to Us they will be returned.  
41. And mention in the Scripture Abraham. 
He was a man of truth, a prophet.  
112 
