## 21.  THE PROPHETS   (al-Anbiya)  
81. And to Solomon the stormy wind, blowing 
at His command towards the land that We 
have blessed. We are aware of everything.  
82. And of the devils were some that dived for 
him, and performed other, lesser tasks. But 
We kept them restrained.  
83. And Job, when he cried out to his Lord: 
“Great harm has  afflicted me, and you are the 
Most Merciful of the merciful.” 
84. So We answered him, lifted his suffering, 
and restored his family to him, and their like 
with them —a mercy from Us, and a reminder 
for the worshipers.  
85. And Ishmael, and Enoch, and Ezekie l; each 
was one of the steadfast.  
86. And We admitted them into Our mercy. 
They were among the righteous.  
87. And Jonah, when he stormed out in fury, 
thinking We had no power over him. But 
then He cried out in the darkness, “There is 
no god but You! Glory to You! I was one of 
the wrongdoers!”  
88. So We answered him, and saved him from 
the affliction. Thus We save the faithful.  
89. And Zechariah, when he called out to his 
Lord, “My Lord, do not leave me alone, even though you are the Best of heirs.”  
90. So W e answered him, and gave him John. 
And We cured his wife for him. They used to 
vie in doing righteous deeds, and used to call 
on Us in love and awe, and they used to hum-
ble themselves to Us.  
91. And she who guarded her virginity. We 
breathed into her of Our spirit, and made her 
and her son a sign to the world.  
92. This community of yours is one commu-
nity, and I am your Lord, so worship Me.  
93. But they splintered themselves into fac-
tions. They will all return to Us.  
94. Whoever does righteous deeds, and is a be-
liever, his effort will not be denied. We are 
writing it down for him.   
95. There is a ban on the town that We had de-
stroyed —that they will not return.  96. Until, when Gog and Magog are let loose, 
and they swarm down from every mound.  
97. The promi se of truth has drawn near. The 
eyes of those who disbelieved will stare in 
horror: “Woe to us. We were oblivious to 
this. In fact, we were wrongdoers.”  
98. You and what you worship besides Allah 
are fuel for Hell. You will descend into it.  
99. Had these b een gods, they would not have 
descended into it. All will abide in it.  
100. In it they will wail. In it they will not hear.  
101. As for those who deserved goodness from 
Us—these will be kept away from it.  
102. They will not hear its hissing, and they will 
forever abide in what their hearts desire.  
103. The Supreme Fear will not worry them, 
and the angels will receive them: “This is your Day which you were promised.” 
104. On the Day when We fold the heaven, like 
the folding of a book. Just as We began the 
first creation, We will repeat it —a promise 
binding on Us. We will act.  
105. We have written in the Psalms, after the 
Reminder, that the earth will be inherited by 
My righteous servants.  
106. Indeed, in this is a message for people who 
worship.  
107. We did n ot send you except as mercy to 
mankind.  
108. Say, “It is revealed to me that your God is 
One God. Are you going to submit?”  
109. But if they turn away, say, “I have in-
formed you sufficiently. Although I do not 
know whether what you are promised is near 
or far.”  
110. He knows what is said openly, and He 
knows what you conceal.  
111. “And I do not know whether it is perhaps 
a trial for you, and an enjoyment for a while.”  
112. He said, “My Lord, judge with justice.” 
And, “Our Lord is the Gracious, Whose help 
is sought against what you allege.”  
  
122 
