## 36.  YA-SEEN   (Ya-Seen)  
36. Glory be to Him who created all the pairs; 
of what the earth produces, and of their own 
selves, and of what they do not know.  
37. Another sign for them is the night: We 
strip the day out of i t—and they are in dark-
ness.  
38. And the sun runs towards its destination. 
Such is the design of the Almighty, the All -
Knowing.  
39. And the moon: We have disposed it in 
phases, until it returns like the old twig.  
40. The sun is not to overtake the moon, nor  is 
the night to outpace the day. Each floats in an 
orbit.  
41. Another sign for them is that We carried 
their offspring in the laden Ark.  
42. And We created for them the like of it, in 
which they ride.  
43. If We will, We can drown them —with no 
screaming to  be heard from them, nor will 
they be saved.  
44. Except by a mercy from Us, and enjoyment 
for a while.  
45. Yet when it is said to them, “Beware of 
what lies before you, and what lies behind you, that you may receive mercy.”  
46. Yet never came to them a sig n of their 
Lord’s signs, but they turned away from it.  
47. And when it is said to them, “Spend of 
what Allah has provided for you,” those who 
disbelieve say to those who believe, “Shall we 
feed someone whom Allah could feed, if He 
so willed? You must be de eply misguided.”  
48. And they say, “When will this promise be, 
if you are truthful?”  
49. All they can expect is a single blast, which 
will seize them while they feud.  
50. They will not be able to make a will, nor 
will they return to their families.  
51. The Trumpet will be blown, then behold, 
they will rush from the tombs to their Lord.  
52. They will say, “Woe to us! Who resurrected 
us from our resting -place?” This is what the Most Gracious had promised, and the mes-
sengers have spoken the truth.”  
53. It will  be but a single scream; and behold, 
they will all be brought before Us.  
54. On that Day, no soul will be wronged in the 
least, and you will be recompensed only for 
what you used to do.  
55. The inhabitants of Paradise, on that Day, 
will be happily busy.  
56. They and their spouses, in shades, reclin-
ing on couches.  
57. They will have therein fruits. They will 
have whatever they call for.  
58. Peace— a saying from a Most Merciful 
Lord.  
59. But step aside today, you criminals.  
60. Did I not covenant with you, O C hildren of 
Adam, that you shall not serve the devil? That he is your sworn enemy?  
61. And that you shall serve Me? This is a 
straight path.  
62. He has misled a great multitude of you. Did 
you not understand?  
63. This is Hellfire, which you were promised.  
64. Roast in it today, because you persistently 
disbelieved.  
65. On this Day, We will seal their mouths, and 
their hands will speak to Us, and their feet will testify to everything they had done.  
66. If We will, We can blind their eyes as they 
rush towards the path —but how will they 
see? 
67. And if We will, We can cripple them in 
their place; so they can neither move forward, 
nor go back.  
68. Whomever We grant old age, We reverse 
his development. Do they not understand?  
69. We did not teach him poetry, nor is it 
proper for him. It is only a reminder, and a Clear Quran.  
70. That he may warn whoever is alive, and 
prove the Word against the faithless.  
167 
