## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
the blessing of Allah after it  has come to 
him—Allah is severe in retribution.  
212. Beautified is the life of this world for those 
who disbelieve, and they ridicule those who 
believe. But the righteous will be above them 
on the Day of Resurrection. Allah provides to whomever He wills w ithout measure.  
213. Humanity used to be one community; 
then Allah sent the prophets, bringing good 
news and giving warnings. And He sent 
down with them the Scripture, with the truth, 
to judge between people regarding their dif-
ferences. But none differed over it except 
those w ho were given it —after the proofs had 
come to them —out of mutual envy between 
them. Then Allah guided those who believed 
to the truth they had disputed, in accordance 
with His will. Allah guides whom He wills to 
a straight path.  
214. Or do you expect to e nter Paradise before 
the example of those who came before you 
had reached you? Adversity and hardship had afflicted them, and they were so shaken 
up, that the Messenger and those who be-
lieved with him said, “When is Allah’s vic-
tory?” Indeed, Allah’s victor y is near.  
215. They ask you what they should give. Say, 
“Whatever charity you give is for the parents, 
and the relatives, and the orphans, and the poor, and the wayfarer. Whatever good you do, Allah is aware of it.  
216. Fighting is ordained for you, even though 
you dislike it. But it may be that you dislike 
something while it is good for you, and it may 
be that you like something while it is bad for 
you. Allah knows, and you do not know.  
217. They ask you about fighting during the 
Holy Month. Say, “Fightin g during it is de-
plorable; but to bar others from Allah’s path, 
and to disbelieve in Him, and to prevent ac-
cess to the Holy Mosque, and to expel its peo-
ple from it, are more deplorable with Allah. 
And persecution is more serious than killing. 
They will not  cease to fight you until they 
turn you back from your religion, if they can. Whoever among you turns back from his re-ligion, and dies a disbeliever —those are they whose works will come to nothing, in this life, 
and in the Hereafter. Those are the inmates 
of the Fire, abiding in it forever.  
218. Those who believed, and those who mi-
grated and fought for the sake of Allah—
those look forward to Allah’s mercy. Allah is 
Forgiving and Merciful.  
219. They ask you about intoxicants and gam-
bling. Say, “There is gros s sin in them, and 
some benefits for people, but their sinfulness 
outweighs their benefit.” And they ask you 
about what they should give: say, “The sur-
plus.” Thus Allah explains the revelations to 
you, so that you may think.  
220. About this world and the n ext. And they 
ask you about orphans. Say, “Improvement 
for them is best. And if you intermix with 
them, then they are your brethren.” Allah 
knows the dishonest from the honest. Had 
Allah willed, He could have overburdened 
you. Allah is Mighty and Wise.  
221. Do not marry idolatresses, unless they 
have believed. A believing maid is better than 
an idolatress, even if you like her. And do not 
marry idolaters, unless they have believed. A 
believing servant is better than an idolater, 
even if you like him. These call to the Fire, but 
Allah calls to the Garden and to forgiveness, 
by His leave. He makes clear His communi-cations to the people, that they may be mind-ful. 
222. And they ask you about menstruation: 
say, “It is harmful, so keep away from women 
during menst ruation. And do not approach 
them until they have become pure. Once they have become pure, approach them in the way 
Allah has directed you.” Allah loves the re-pentant, and He loves those who keep clean.”  
223. Your women are cultivation for you; so 
approach  your cultivation whenever you like, 
and send ahead for yourselves. And fear Al-
lah, and know that you will meet Him. And 
give good news to the believers.  
224. And do not allow your oaths in Allah's 
name to hinder you from virtue, and right-
eousness, and mak ing peace between people. 
Allah is Listener and Knower.  
12 
