## 22.  THE PILGRIMAGE   (al-Hajj)  
41. Those who, when We empower them in the 
land, observe the prayer, and give regular 
charity, and command what is right, and for-
bid what is wrong. To Allah belongs the out-
come of events.  
42. If they deny you— before them the people 
of Noah, and Aad, and Thamood also denied.  
43. And the people of Abraham, and the peo-
ple of Lot.  
44. And the inhabitants of Median. And Moses 
was denied. Then I reprieved those who dis-
believed, but then I seized them.  So how was 
My rejection?  
45. How many a town have We destroyed 
while it was doing wrong? They lie in ruins; 
with stilled wells, and lofty mansions.  
46. Have they not journeyed in the land, and 
had minds to reason with, or ears to listen with? It is not the eyes that go blind, but it is 
the hearts, within the chests, that go blind.  
47. And they ask you to hasten the punish-
ment. But Allah never breaks His promise. A 
day with your Lord is like a thousand years of 
your count.  
48. How many a town have I repriev ed, alt-
hough it was unjust? Then I seized it. To Me 
is the destination.  
49. Say, “O people, I am only a plain warner to 
you.”  
50. Those who believe and work righteous-
ness—for them is forgiveness and a generous 
provision.  
51. But those who strive against Ou r revela-
tions —these are the inmates of Hell.  
52. We never sent a messenger before you, or 
a prophet, but when he had a desire Satan in-
terfered in his wishes. But Allah nullifies what 
Satan interjects, and Allah affirms His revela-
tions. Allah is Omniscient and Wise.  
53. In order to make Satan’s suggestions a trial 
for those whose hearts are diseased, and those 
whose hearts are hardened. The wrongdoers 
are in profound discord.  54. And so that those endowed with 
knowledge may know that it is the truth from 
your Lord, and so believe in it, and their 
hearts soften to it. Allah guides those who be-
lieve to a straight path.  
55. Those who disbelieve will continue to be 
hesitant about it, until the Hour comes upon 
them suddenly, or there comes to them the 
torment of a  desolate Day.  
56. Sovereignty on that Day belongs to Allah; 
He will judge between them. Those who be-
lieve and do good deeds will be in the Gar-
dens of Bliss.  
57. But those who disbelieve and reject Our 
revelations —these will have a humiliating 
punishment.  
58. Those who emigrate in Allah’s cause, then 
get killed, or die, Allah will provide them with 
fine provisions. Allah is the Best of Providers.  
59. He will admit them an admittance that will 
please them. Allah is Knowing and Clement.  
60. That is so! Whoeve r retaliates similarly to 
the affliction he was made to suffer, and then 
he is wronged again, Allah will definitely as-
sist him. Allah is Pardoning and Forgiving.  
61. That is because Allah merges the night into 
the day, and He merges the day into the night,  
and because Allah is Hearing and Seeing.  
62. That is because Allah is the Reality, and 
what they invoke besides Him is vanity, and 
because Allah is the Sublime, the Grand.  
63. Do you not see that Allah sends down wa-
ter from the sky, and the land becomes g reen? 
Allah is Kind and Aware.  
64. To Him belongs everything in the heavens 
and everything on earth. Allah is the Rich, the 
Praised.  
65. Do you not see that Allah made everything 
on earth subservient to you? How the ships sail at sea by His command? That H e holds 
up the sky lest it falls on earth —except by His 
permission? Allah is Gracious towards the 
people, Most Merciful.  
125 
