## 27.  THE ANT   (an-Naml)  
8. Then, when he reached it, he was ca lled: 
“Blessed is He who is within the fire, and He 
who is around it, and glorified be Allah, Lord 
of the Worlds.  
9. O Moses, it is I, Allah, the Almighty, the 
Wise.  
10. Throw down your staff.” But when he saw 
it quivering, as though it were a demon, he 
turned around not looking back. “O Moses, 
do not fear; the messengers do not fear in My 
presence.  
11. But whoever has done wrong, and then 
substituted goodness in place of evil. I am 
Forgiving and Merciful.  
12. Put your hand inside your pocket, and it 
will c ome out white, without blemish—
among nine miracles to Pharaoh and his peo-ple, for they are immoral people.”  
13. Yet when Our enlightening signs came to 
them, they said, “This is obvious witchcraft.”  
14. And they rejected them, although their 
souls were cer tain of them, out of wickedness 
and pride. So see how the outcome was for 
the mischief -makers.  
15. And We gave David and Solomon 
knowledge. They said, “Praise Allah, who has 
favored us over many of His believing serv-
ants.”  
16. And Solomon succeeded David. He said, 
“O people, we were taught the language of 
birds, and we were given from everything. 
This is indeed a real blessing.”  
17. To the service of Solomon were mobilized 
his troops of sprites, and men, and birds —all 
held in strict order.  
18. Until, when t hey came upon the Valley of 
Ants, an ant said, “O ants! Go into your nests, lest Solomon and his troops crush you with-
out noticing.”  
19. He smiled and laughed at her words, and 
said, “My Lord, direct me to be thankful for 
the blessings you have bestowed up on me 
and upon my parents, and to do good works 
that please You. And admit me, by Your grace, into the company of Your virtuous 
servants.”  
20. Then he inspected the birds, and said, 
“Why do I not see the hoopoe? Or is he 
among the absentees?  
21. I will pun ish him most severely, or slay 
him, unless he gives me a valid excuse.”  
22. But he did not stay for long. He said, “I 
have learnt something you did not know. I 
have come to you from Sheba, with reliable 
information.  
23. I found a woman ruling over them, and she 
was given of everything, and she has a mag-nificent throne.  
24. I found her and her people worshiping the 
sun, instead of Allah. Satan made their con-
duct appear good to them, and diverted them 
from the path, so they are not guided.  
25. If only they would worship Allah, who 
brings to light the mysteries of the heavens 
and the earth, and knows what you conceal 
and what you reveal.  
26.  Allah— There is no god but He, the Lord 
of the Sublime Throne.”  
27. He said, “We will see, whether you have 
spoken the truth, or whether you are a liar.  
28. Go with this letter of mine, and deliver it to 
them; then withdraw from them, and see how they respond.”  
29. She said, “O Counselors, a gracious letter 
was delivered to me.  
30. It is from Solomon, and it is, ‘In the Na me 
of Allah, the Gracious, the Merciful.  
31. Do not defy me, and come to me submis-
sively.’”  
32. She said, “O counselors, advise me in this 
matter of mine. I never make a decision un-less you are present.”  
33. They said, “We are a people of might and 
great c ourage, but the decision is yours, so 
consider what you wish to command.”  
34. She said, “When kings enter a city, they 
devastate it, and subjugate its dignified peo-
ple. Thus they always do.  
142 
