## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
and the prophets. Who gives money, though 
dear, to near relatives, and orphans, and the 
needy, and the homeless, and the beggars, 
and for the fre eing of slaves; those who per-
form the prayers, and pay the obligatory 
charity, and fulfill their promise when they 
promise, and patiently persevere in the face 
of persecution, hardship, and in the time of 
conflict. These are the sincere; these are the 
piou s. 
178. O you who believe! Retaliation for the 
murdered is ordained upon you: the free for 
the free, the slave for the slave, the female for 
the female. But if he is forgiven by his kin, 
then grant any reasonable demand, and pay 
with good will. This is a c oncession from 
your Lord, and a mercy. But whoever com-
mits aggression after that, a painful torment 
awaits him.  
179. There is life for you in retaliation, O peo-
ple of understanding, so that you may refrain.  
180. It is decreed for you: when death ap-
proaches  one of you, and he leaves wealth, to 
make a testament in favor of the parents and 
the relatives, fairly and correctly —a duty 
upon the righteous.  
181. But whoever changes it after he has heard 
it, the guilt is upon those who change it. Allah 
is All -Hearing, All- Knowing.  
182. Should someone suspect bias or injustice 
on the part of a testator, and then reconciles 
between them, he commits no sin. Allah is 
Forgiving and Merciful.  
183. O you who believe! Fasting is prescribed 
for you, as it was prescribed for those before 
you, that you may become righteous.  
184. For a specified number of days. But who-
ever among you is sick, or on a journey, then a number of other days. For those who are 
able: a ransom of feeding a needy person. But 
whoever volunteers goodness, it is better for 
him. But to fast is best for you, if you only knew.  
185. Ramadan is the month in which the Quran 
was revealed. Guidance for humanity, and 
clear portents of guidance, and the Criterion. Whoever of you witnesses the month, shall fast it. But  whoever is sick, or on a journey, 
then a number of other days. Allah desires 
ease for you, and does not desire hardship for 
you, that you may complete the number, and 
celebrate Allah for having guided you, so that 
you may be thankful.  
186. And when My ser vants ask you about Me, 
I Am near; I answer the call of the caller when 
he calls on Me. So let them answer Me, and 
have faith in Me, that they may be rightly 
guided.  
187. Permitted for you is intercourse with your 
wives on the night of the fast. They are a  gar-
ment for you, and you are a garment for 
them. Allah knows that you used to betray 
yourselves, but He turned to you and par-
doned you. So approach them now, and seek 
what Allah has ordained for you, and eat and 
drink until the white streak of dawn can be  
distinguished from the black streak. Then 
complete the fast until nightfall. But do not 
approach them while you are in retreat at the 
mosques. These are the limits of Allah, so do not come near them. Allah thus clarifies His 
revelations to the people, tha t they may attain 
piety.  
188. And do not consume one another’s wealth 
by unjust means, nor offer it as bribes to the officials in order to consume part of other 
people’s wealth illicitly, while you know.  
189. They ask you about the crescents. Say, 
“They ar e timetables for people, and for the 
Hajj.” It is not virtuous that you approach 
homes from their backs, but virtue is to be pi-
ous. So approach homes from their doors, 
and observe Allah, that you may succeed.  
190. And fight in the cause of Allah those who 
fight you, but do not commit aggression; Al-
lah does not love the aggressors.  
191. And kill them wherever you overtake 
them, and expel them from where they had 
expelled you. Oppression is more serious than murder. But do not fight them at the Sa-
cred Mosque,  unless they fight you there. If 
they fight you, then kill them. Such is the ret-
ribution of the disbelievers.  
10 
