## 35.  ORIGINATOR   (Fatir)  
6. Satan is an enemy to you, so treat him as an 
enemy. He only  invites his gang to be among 
the inmates of the Inferno.  
7. Those who disbelieve will suffer a harsh 
punishment, but those who believe and do 
righteous deeds will have forgiveness and a 
great reward.  
8. What of him whose evil deed was made at-
tractive to h im, and so he regards it as good? 
Allah leads astray whomever He wills, and He 
guides whomever He wills. Therefore, do not 
waste yourself sorrowing over them. Allah 
knows exactly what they do.  
9. Allah is He who sends the winds, which ag-
itate clouds, which We drive to a dead land, 
and thereby revive the ground after it had 
died. Likewise is the Resurrection.  
10. Whoever desires honor —all honor belongs 
to Allah. To Him ascends speech that is pure, 
and He elevates righteous conduct. As for those who plot evil , a terrible punishment 
awaits them, and the planning of these will 
fail. 
11. Allah created you from dust, then from a 
small drop; then He made you pairs. No fe-
male conceives, or delivers, except with His 
knowledge. No living thing advances in years, 
or it s life is shortened, except it be in a Rec-
ord. That is surely easy for Allah.  
12. The two seas are not the same. One is fresh, 
sweet, good to drink, while the other is salty and bitter. Yet from each you eat tender meat, 
and extract jewelry which you wear.  And you 
see the ships plowing through them, so that 
you may seek of His bounty, so that you may give thanks.  
13. He merges the night into the day, and He 
merges the day into the night; and He regu-
lates the sun and the moon, each running for 
a stated term.  Such is Allah, your Lord; His is 
the sovereignty. As for those you call upon 
besides Him, they do not possess a speck.  
14. If you pray to them, they cannot hear your 
prayer. And even if they heard, they would not answer you. And on the Day of Resurrec-
tion, they will reject your partnership. None 
informs you like an Expert.  
15. O people! It is you who are the poor, in 
need of Allah; while Allah is the Rich, the 
Praiseworthy.  
16. If He wills, He can do away with you, and 
produce a new creation.  
17. And that would not be difficult for Allah.  
18. No burdened soul can carry the burden of 
another. Even if one weighted down calls for 
help with its burden, nothing can be lifted 
from it, even if they were related. You are to 
warn those who fear their Lord inwardly, and 
perform the prayer. He who purifies himself 
purifies himself for his own good. To Allah is 
the ultimate return.  
19. Not equal are the blind and the seeing.  
20. Nor are the darkness and the light.  
21. Nor are the shade and the torrid heat.  
22. Nor are equal the living and the dead. Allah 
causes whomever He wills to hear, but you 
cannot make those in the graves hear.  
23. You are only a warner.  
24. We sent you with the truth; a bearer of 
good news, and a warner. There is no com-
munity but a warner has pass ed through it.  
25. If they disbelieve you, those before them 
also disbelieved. Their messengers came to 
them with the clear proofs, with the Psalms, and with the Enlightening Scripture.  
26. Then I seized those who disbelieved —so 
how was My rejection?  
27. Have you not seen that Allah sends down 
water from the sky? With it We produce 
fruits of various colors. And in the mountains 
are streaks of white and red —varying in their 
hue—and pitch -black.  
28. Likewise, human beings, animals, and live-
stock come in vari ous colors. From among 
His servants, the learned fear Allah. Allah is 
Almighty, Oft- Forgiving.  
29. Those who recite the Book of Allah, and 
perform the prayer, and spend of what We 
164 
