## 18.  THE CAVE   (al-Kahf)  
4. And to warn those who say, “Allah has be-
gotten a son.”  
5. They have no knowledge of this, nor did 
their forefathers. Grave is the word that 
comes out of their mouths. They say nothing 
but a lie.  
6. Perhaps you may destroy yourself with 
grief, chasing after them, if they do not be-lieve in this information.  
7. We made what is upon the earth an orna-
ment for it, to test them as to which of them 
is best in conduct.  
8. And We will turn what is on it into barren 
waste.  
9. Did you know that the People of the Cave 
and the Inscription were of Our wondrous signs?  
10. When t he youths took shelter in the cave, 
they said, “Our Lord, give us mercy from 
Yourself, and bless our affair with guidance.”  
11. Then We sealed their ears in the cave for a 
number of years.  
12. Then We awakened them to know which 
of the two groups could better calculate the length of their stay.  
13. We relate to you their story in truth. They 
were youths who believed in their Lord, and We increased them in guidance.  
14. And We strengthened their hearts, when 
they stood up and said, “Our Lord is the Lord 
of the heavens and the earth; we will not call 
on any god besides Him, for then we would 
have spoken an outrage.”  
15. “These people, our people, have taken to 
themselves gods other than Him. Why do 
they not bring a clear proof concerning them? Who, then, does greater wrong than he 
who invents lies and attributes them to Al-
lah?”  
16. “Now that you have withdrawn from them, 
and from what they worship besides Allah, 
take shelter in the cave. And your Lord will 
unfold His mercy for you, and will set your 
affair towards ease.”  17. You would have seen the sun, when it rose, 
veering away from their cave towards the 
right, and when it sets, moving away from 
them to the left, as they lay in the midst of the 
cave. That was one of Allah’s wonders. He 
whom Allah guides i s truly guided; but he 
whom He misguides, for him you will find no 
directing friend.  
18. You would think them awake, although 
they were asleep. And We turned them over 
to the right, and to the left, with their dog stretching its paws across the threshold. Had 
you looked at them, you would have turned 
away from them in flight, and been filled with 
fear of them.  
19. Even so, We awakened them, so that they 
may ask one another. A speaker among them 
said, “How long have you stayed?” They said, “We have stayed a day, or part of a day.” They 
said, “Your Lord knows best how long you 
have stayed.” “Send one of you to the city, 
with this money of yours, and let him see 
which food is most suitable, and let him bring 
you some provision thereof. And let him be 
gentle, an d let no one become aware of you.”  
20. “If they discover you, they will stone you, 
or force you back into their religion; then you 
will never be saved.”  
21. So it was, that We caused them to be dis-
covered, that they would know that the 
promise of Allah is true, and that of the Hour 
there is no doubt. As they were disputing 
their case among themselves, they said, 
“Build over them a building.” Their Lord 
knows best about them. Those who prevailed 
over their case said, “We will set up over them 
a place of wors hip.”  
22. They will say, “Three, and their fourth be-
ing their dog.” And they will say, “Five, and 
their sixth being their dog,” guessing at the 
unknown. And they will say, “Seven, and 
their eighth being their dog.” Say, “My Lord 
knows best their number.” N one knows them 
except a few. So do not argue concerning them except with an obvious argument, and 
do not consult any of them about them.  
107 
