## 40.  FORGIVER   (Ghafir)  
42. You call me to reject Allah, and to associate 
with Him what I have no knowledge of, while 
I call you to the Mighty Forgiver.  
43. Without a doubt, what you call me to has 
no say in this world, or in the Hereafter; and 
our turning back is to Allah; and the trans-
gressors ar e the inmates of the Fire.  
44. You will remember what I am telling you, 
so I commit my case to Allah. Allah is Ob-
servant of the servants.”  
45. So Allah protected him from the evils of 
their scheming, while a terrible torment be-sieged Pharaoh’s clan.  
46. The Fire. They will be exposed to it morn-
ing and evening. And on the Day the Hour 
takes place: “Admit the clan of Pharaoh to the 
most intense agony.”  
47. As they quarrel in the Fire, the weak will 
say to those who were arrogant, “We were 
followers of yours; will you then spare us a 
portion of the Fire?”  
48. Those who were arrogant will say, “We are 
all in it; Allah has judged between the serv-
ants.”  
49. And those in the Fire will say to the keepers 
of Hell, “Call to your Lord to lessen our suf-
fering for one da y.” 
50. They will say, “Did not your messengers 
come to you with clear signs?” They will say, 
“Yes.” They will say, “Then pray, but the prayers of the disbelievers will always be in 
vain.”  
51. Most surely We will support Our messen-
gers and those who believ e, in this life, and on 
the Day the witnesses arise.  
52. The Day when their excuses will not profit 
the wrongdoers, and the curse will be upon 
them, and they will have the Home of Misery.  
53. We gave Moses guidance, and made the 
Children of Israel inherit the Scripture.  
54. A guide and a reminder for those endowed 
with reason.  55. So be patient. The promise of Allah is true. 
And ask forgiveness for your sin, and pro-
claim the praise of your Lord evening and 
morning.  
56. Those who dispute regarding Allah’s reve-
lations without any authority having come to 
them —there is nothing in their hearts but the 
feeling of greatness, which they will never at-
tain. So seek refuge in Allah; for He is the All -
Hearing, the All -Seeing.  
57. Certainly the creation of the heavens  and 
the earth is greater than the creation of hu-
manity, but most people do not know.  
58. Not equal are the blind and the seeing. Nor 
are those who believe and work righteousness equal to the sinners. How little you reflect.  
59. Indeed, the Hour is coming;  there is no 
doubt about it; but most people do not be-
lieve.  
60. Your Lord has said, “Pray to Me, and I will 
respond to you. But those who are too proud 
to worship Me will enter Hell forcibly.”  
61. It is Allah Who made the night for you, that 
you may rest therein; and the day allowing 
sight. Allah is gracious towards the people, but most people do not give thanks.  
62. Such is Allah, your Lord, Creator of all 
things. There is no god except Him; so how could you turn away?  
63. Thus are turned away those who dispute 
the signs of Allah.  
64. It is Allah who made the earth a habitat for 
you, and the sky a structure. And He de-
signed you, and designed you well; and He provided you with the good things. Such is 
Allah, your Lord; so Blessed is Allah, Lord of 
the Worl ds. 
65. He is the Living One. There is no god ex-
cept He. So pray to Him, devoting your reli-
gion to Him. Praise be to Allah, the Lord of 
the Worlds.  
66. Say, “I was prohibited from worshiping 
those you invoke besides Allah, now that 
clear revelations have c ome to me from my 
180 
