## 41.  DETAILED   (Fussilat)  
29. Those who disbelieved will say, “Our Lord, 
show us those who led us astray —among jinn 
and humans —and we will trample them un-
der our feet, so they become of the lowest.”  
30. Surely, those who say: “Our Lord is Allah,” 
and then go straight, the angels will d escend 
upon them: “Do not fear, and do not grieve, 
but rejoice in the news of the Garden which 
you were promised.  
31. We are your allies in this life and in the 
Hereafter, wherein you will have whatever 
your souls desire, and you will have therein 
whatever  you call for.  
32. As Hospitality from an All -Forgiving, 
Merciful One.”  
33. And who is better in speech than someone 
who calls to Allah, and acts with integrity, and says, “I am of those who submit”?  
34. Good and evil are not equal. Repel evil with 
good, a nd the person who was your enemy 
becomes like an intimate friend.  
35. But none will attain it except those who 
persevere, and none will attain it except the 
very fortunate.  
36. When a temptation from the Devil pro-
vokes you, seek refuge in Allah; He is the 
Hearer, the Knower.  
37. And of His signs are the night and the day, 
and the sun and the moon. Do not bow down 
to the sun, nor to the moon, but bow down to Allah, Who created them both, if it is Him 
that you serve.  
38. But if they are too proud —those in the  
presence of your Lord praise Him night and 
day, and without ever tiring.  
39. And of His signs is that you see the land 
still. But when We send down water upon it, 
it stirs and grows. Surely, He Who revived it will revive the dead. He is Able to do all 
things. 
40. Those who despise Our revelations are not 
hidden from Us. Is he who is hurled into the Fire better? Or he who arrives safely on the 
Day of Resurrection? Do as you please; He is 
Seeing of everything you do.  41. Those who reject the Reminder when it  has 
come to them —it is an invincible Book.  
42. Falsehood cannot approach it, from before 
it or behind it. It is a revelation from One Wise and Praiseworthy.  
43. Nothing is said to you but was said to the 
Messengers before you: your Lord is Posses-
sor of Forgiveness, and Possessor of Painful 
Repayment.  
44. Had We made it a Quran in a foreign lan-
guage, they would have said, “If only its 
verses were made clear.” Non- Arabic and an 
Arab? Say, “For those who believe, it is guid-
ance and healing. But as for those w ho do not 
believe: there is heaviness in their ears, and it 
is blindness for them. These are being called 
from a distant place.”  
45. We gave Moses the Book, but disputes 
arose concerning it. Were it not for a prior 
decree from your Lord, judgment would have been pronounced between them. But they are 
in perplexing doubt concerning it.  
46. Whoever acts righteously does so for him-
self; and  whoever works evil does so against 
himself. Your Lord is not unjust to the serv-
ants.  
47. To Him is referred the knowledge of the 
Hour. No fruit emerges from its sheath, and no female conceives or delivers, except with 
His knowledge. And on the Day when He  
calls out to them, “Where are My associates?” 
They will say, “We admit to you, none of us 
is a witness.”  
48. What they used to pray to before will for-
sake them, and they will realize that they have 
no escape.  
49. The human being never tires of praying for  
good things; but when adversity afflicts him, 
he despairs and loses hope.  
50. And when We let him taste a mercy from 
Us, after the adversity that had afflicted him, 
he will say, “This is mine, and I do not think 
that the Hour is coming; and even if I am r e-
turned to my Lord, I will have the very best 
183 
