## 47.  MUHAMMAD   (Muhammad)  
to appear good to him? And they follow their 
own desires?  
15. The likeness of the Garden promised to the 
righteous: in it are rivers of pure water, and 
rivers of milk forever fresh, and rivers of wine 
delightful to the drinkers, and r ivers of 
strained honey. And therein they will have of every fruit, and forgiveness from their Lord. Like one abiding in the Fire forever, and are 
given to drink boiling water, that cuts -up 
their bowels?  
16. Among them are those who listen to you, 
but when  they leave your presence, they say 
to those given knowledge, “What did he say 
just now?” Those are they whose hearts Allah 
has sealed, and they follow their own desires.  
17. As for those who are guided, He increases 
them in guidance, and He has granted th em 
their righteousness.  
18. Are they just waiting until the Hour comes 
to them suddenly? Its tokens have already 
come. But how will they be reminded when it 
has come to them?  
19. Know that there is no god but Allah, and 
ask forgiveness for your sin, and fo r the be-
lieving men and believing women. Allah 
knows your movements, and your resting -
place.  
20. Those who believe say, “If only a chapter is 
sent down.” Yet when a decisive chapter is sent down, and fighting is mentioned in it, you see those in whose hear ts is sickness 
looking at you with the look of someone 
fainting at death. So woe to them!  
21. Obedience and upright speech. Then, 
when the matter is settled, being true to Allah 
would have been better for them.  
22. If you turn away, you are likely to make 
mischief on earth, and sever your family ties.  
23. Those are they whom Allah has cursed. He 
made them deaf, and blinded their sight.  
24. Will they not ponder the Quran? Or are 
there locks upon their hearts?  25. Those who reverted after the guidance be-
came clear to them —Satan has enticed them, 
and has given them latitude.  
26. That is because they said to those who 
hated what Allah has revealed, “We will obey you in certain matters.” But Allah knows 
their secret thoughts.  
27. How about when the angels take t hem at 
death, beating their faces and their backs?  
28. That is because they pursued what dis-
pleases Allah, and they disliked His approval, 
so He nullified their works.  
29. Do those in whose hearts is sickness think 
that Allah will not expose their malice?  
30. Had We willed, We could have shown 
them to you, and you would have recognized 
them by their marks. Yet you will recognize 
them by their tone of speech. And Allah 
knows your actions.  
31. We will certainly test you, until We know 
those among you who stri ve, and those who 
are steadfast, and We will test your reactions.  
32. Those who disbelieve, and hinder from the 
path of Allah, and oppose the Messenger af-
ter guidance has become clear to them —they 
will not hurt Allah in the least, but He will 
nullify their  deeds.  
33. O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey 
the Messenger, and do not let your deeds go 
to waste.  
34. Those who disbelieve, and hinder from Al-
lah’s path, and then die as disbelievers —Al-
lah will not forgive them.  
35. So do not waver and call for pea ce while 
you have the upper hand. Allah is with you, 
and He will not waste your efforts.  
36. The life of this world is nothing but play 
and pastime. But if you have faith and lead a 
righteous life, He will grant you your re-wards, and He will not ask you fo r your pos-
sessions.  
37. Were He to ask you for it, and press you, 
you would become tightfisted, and He would 
expose your unwillingness.  
195 
