## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
265. And the parable of those who spend their 
wealth seeking Allah’s approval, and to 
strengthen their souls, is that of a garden on 
a hillside. If heavy rain falls on it, its produce 
is doubled; and if no heavy rain falls, then 
dew is enough. Allah is seeing of everything 
you do.  
266. Would any one of you like to have a garden 
of palms and vines, under which rivers 
flow —with all kinds of fruit in it for him, and 
old age has stricken him, and he has weak 
children —then a tornado with fire batters it, 
and it burns down? Thus Allah makes clear 
the si gns for you, so that you may reflect.  
267. O you who believe! Give of the good 
things you have earned, and from what We 
have produced for you from the earth. And 
do not pick the inferior things to give away, 
when you yourselves would not accept it ex-
cept w ith eyes closed. And know that Allah is 
Sufficient and Praiseworthy.  
268. Satan promises you poverty, and urges 
you to immorality; but Allah promises you 
forgiveness from Himself, and grace. Allah is 
Embracing and Knowing.  
269. He gives wisdom to whomever He wills. 
Whoever is given wisdom has been given 
much good. But none pays heed except those 
with insight.  
270. Whatever charity you give, or a pledge you 
fulfill, Allah knows it. The wrongdoers have 
no helpers.  
271. If you give charity openly, that is good . But 
if you keep it secret, and give it to the needy in private, that is better for you. It will atone 
for some of your misdeeds. Allah is cognizant 
of what you do.  
272. Their guidance is not your responsibility, 
but Allah guides whom He wills. Any charit y 
you give is for your own good. Any charity 
you give shall be for the sake of Allah. Any 
charity you give will be repaid to you in full, 
and you will not be wronged.  
273. It is for the poor; those who are restrained 
in the way of Allah, and unable to trav el in 
the land. The unaware would think them rich, due to their dignity. You will recognize 
them by their features. They do not ask from 
people insistently. Whatever charity you give, 
Allah is aware of it.  
274. Those who spend their wealth by night 
and day, privately and publicly, will receive 
their reward from their Lord. They have 
nothing to fear, nor shall they grieve.  
275. Those who swallow usury will not rise, ex-
cept as someone driven mad by Satan's touch. 
That is because they say, “Commerce is like 
usury.” But Allah has permitted commerce, 
and has forbidden usury. Whoever, on re-
ceiving advice from his Lord, refrains, may 
keep his past earnings, and his case rests with 
Allah. But whoever resumes —these are the 
dwellers of the Fire, wherein they will ab ide 
forever.  
276. Allah condemns usury, and He blesses 
charities. Allah does not love any sinful in-
grate.  
277. Those who believe, and do good deeds, 
and pray regularly, and give charity —they 
will have their reward with their Lord; they 
will have no fear, nor shall they grieve.  
278. O you who believe! Fear Allah, and forgo 
what remains of usury, if you are believers.  
279. If you do not, then take notice of a war by 
Allah and His Messenger. But if you repent, 
you may keep your capital, neither wronging, 
nor being wronged.  
280. But if he is in hardship, then deferment 
until a time of ease. But to remit it as charity 
is better for you, if you only knew.  
281. And guard yourselves against a Day when 
you will be returned to Allah; then each soul will be rewarded  fully for what it has earned, 
and they will not be wronged.  
282. O you who believe! When you incur debt 
among yourselves for a certain period of time, write it down. And have a scribe write 
in your presence, in all fairness. And let no 
scribe refuse to wr ite, as Allah has taught 
him. So let him write, and let the debtor dic-
tate. And let him fear Allah, his Lord, and di-
minish nothing from it. But if the debtor is 
16 
