## 33.  THE CONFEDERATES   (al-Ahzab)  
aunts, and the d aughters of your maternal 
uncle, and the daughters of your maternal 
aunts who emigrated with you, and a believ-
ing woman who has offered herself to the 
Prophet, if the Prophet desires to marry her, 
exclusively for you, and not for the believers. 
We know wha t We have ordained for them 
regarding their wives and those their right -
hands possess. This is to spare you any diffi-
culty. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
51. You may defer any of them you wish, and 
receive any of them you wish. Should you de-
sire any of those you had deferred, there is no 
blame on you. This is more proper, so that 
they will be comforted, and not be grieved, 
and be content with what you have given 
each one of them. Allah knows what is within 
your hearts. Allah is Omniscient and Clem-
ent. 
52. Beyond that, no other women are permis-
sible for you, nor can you exchange them for 
other wives, even if you admire their beauty, 
except those you already have. Allah is 
Watchful over all things.  
53. O you who believe! Do not enter the homes 
of the Prophe t, unless you are given permis-
sion to come for a meal; and do not wait for 
its preparation. And when you are invited, go 
in. And when you have eaten, disperse, with-
out lingering for conversation. This irritates 
the Prophet, and he shies away from you, but 
Allah does not shy away from the truth. And 
when you ask his wives for something, ask 
them from behind a screen; that is purer for 
your hearts and their hearts. You must never 
offend the Messenger of Allah, nor must you 
ever marry his wives after him, for that would 
be an enormity with Allah.  
54. Whether you declare a thing, or hide it, Al-
lah is Aware of all things.  
55. There is no blame on them concerning 
their fathers, or their sons, or their brothers, 
or their brothers’ sons, or their sisters’ sons, 
or their women, or their female servants. But 
they should remain conscious of Allah. Allah 
is Witness over all things.  56. Allah and His angels give blessings to the 
Prophet. O you who believe, call for blessings 
on him, and greet him with a prayer of peace.  
57. Those who insult Allah and His Messen-
ger, Allah has cursed them in this life and in 
the Hereafter, and has prepared for them a 
demeaning punishment.  
58. Those who harm believing men and believ-
ing women, for acts they did not commit, 
bear the burden of p erjury and a flagrant sin.  
59. O Prophet! Tell your wives, and your 
daughters, and the women of the believers, to 
lengthen their garments. That is more proper, so they will be recognized and not 
harassed. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
60. If the hypocri tes, and those with sickness 
in their hearts, and the rumormongers in the City, do not desist, We will incite you against 
them; then they will not be your neighbors 
there except for a short while.  
61. They are cursed; wherever they are found, 
they should be captured and killed outright.  
62. Such has been Allah’s precedent with those 
who passed away before. You will find no 
change in Allah’s system.  
63. The people ask you about the Hour. Say, 
“The knowledge thereof rests with Allah. But 
what do you know? Pe rhaps the hour is near.”  
64. Allah has cursed the disbelievers, and has 
prepared for them a Blaze.  
65. Dwelling therein forever, not finding a 
protector or a savior.  
66. The Day when their faces are flipped into 
the Fire, they will say, “If only we had obeyed 
Allah and obeyed the Messenger.”  
67. And they will say, “Lord, we have obeyed 
our superiors and our dignitaries, but they 
led us away from the way.  
68. Lord, give them double the punishment, 
and curse them with a great curse.”  
69. O you who believe!  Do not be like those 
who abused Moses; but Allah cleared him of 
what they said. He was distinguished with Al-
lah. 
160 
