## 35.  ORIGINATOR   (Fatir)  
believes and does good deeds. These will have 
a double reward for what they did; and they 
will reside in the Chambers, in peace and se-
curity.  
38. But those who work against Our revela-
tions, seeking to undermine them —those will 
be summoned to the punishment.  
39. Say, “My Lord extends the provision to 
whomever He wills of His servants, or with-
holds it. Anything you spend, He will replace 
it. He is the Best of providers.”  
40. On the Day when He gathers them all to-
gether, then say to the angels, “Was it you 
these used to worship?”  
41. They will say, “Be You glorified; You are 
our Master, not them. In fact, they used to 
worship the jinn, and most of them had faith in them.”  
42. “Today, none of you has the power to 
profit or harm the other.” And We will say to 
those who did wrong, “Taste the agony of the 
Fire which you used to deny.”  
43. And whe n Our enlightening Verses are re-
cited to them, they say, “This is nothing but a 
man who wants to divert you from what your ancestors used to worship.” And they say, 
“This is nothing but a fabricated lie.” And 
when the Truth comes to them, the blas-phemers s ay of the Truth, “This is nothing 
but plain magic.”  
44. But We gave them no book to study, and 
We did not send them any warner before you.  
45. Those before them also denied the Truth, 
yet they have not attained one -tenth of what 
We had given them. They rej ected My mes-
sengers, so how was My disapproval?  
46. Say, “I offer you a single advice: devote 
yourselves to Allah, in pairs, or individually; 
and reflect. There is no madness in your 
friend. He is just a warner to you, before the 
advent of a severe punishm ent.”  
47. Say, “Whatever compensation I have asked 
of you, is yours. My compensation comes only from Allah, and He is Witness over all 
things.”  48. Say, “My Lord projects the truth. He is the 
Knower of the Unseen.”  
49. Say, “The Truth has come; while false hood 
can neither originate, nor regenerate.”  
50. Say, “If I err, I err only to my own loss; but 
if I am guided, it is by what my Lord inspires me. He is Hearing and Near.”  
51. If you could only see when they are terri-
fied, and there is no escape, and they are 
seized from a nearby place.  
52. And they say, “We have believed in it.” But 
how can they attain it from a distant place?  
53. They have rejected it in the past, and made 
allegations from a far -off place.  
54. A barrier will be placed between them and 
what they desire, as was done formerly with 
their counterparts. They were in disturbing 
doubt.  
  
35. ORIGINATOR  
(Fatir ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Praise be to Allah, Originator of the heavens 
and the earth, Maker of the angels messen-
gers with wings —double, triple, and quadru-
ple. He adds to creation as He wills. Allah is 
Able to do all things.  
2. Whatever mercy Allah unfolds for the peo-
ple, none can withhold it. And if He with-
holds it, none can release it thereafter. He is 
the Ex alted in Power, Full of Wisdom.  
3. O people! Remember Allah’s blessings 
upon you. Is there a creator other than Allah 
who provides for you from the heaven and 
the earth? There is no god but He. So how are 
you misled?  
4. If they reject you, messengers befor e you 
were also rejected. To Allah all matters are re-
turned.  
5. O people! The promise of Allah is true; so 
let not the lowly life seduce you, and let not 
the Tempter tempt you away from Allah.  
163 
