## 20.  TA-HA  (Ta-Ha) 
99. Thus We narrate to you reports of times 
gone by; and We have given you a message 
from Our Presence.  
100. Whoever turns away from it will carry on 
the Day of Resurrection a burden.  
101. Abidi ng therein forever. And wretched is 
their burden on the Day of Resurrection.  
102. On the Day when the Trumpet is blown —
We will gather the sinners on that Day, blue.  
103. Murmuring among themselves: “You have 
lingered only for ten.”  
104. We are fully aware of what they say, when 
the most exemplary of them in conduct will 
say, “You have lingered only a day.”  
105. And they ask you about the mountains. 
Say, “My Lord will crumble them utterly.”  
106. And leave them desolate waste.  
107. You will see in them neithe r crookedness, 
nor deviation.”  
108. On that Day, they will follow the caller, 
without any deviation. Voices will be hushed 
before the Merciful, and you will hear noth-
ing but murmur.   
109. On that Day, intercession will not avail, 
except for him permitted by the Merciful, and 
whose words He has approved.  
110. He knows what is before them and what is 
behind them, and they cannot comprehend 
Him in their knowledge.  
111. Faces will be humbled before the Living, 
the Eternal. Whoever carries injustice will 
despai r. 
112. But whoever has done righteous deeds, 
while being a believer —will fear neither in-
justice, nor grievance.  
113. Thus We have revealed it an Arabic 
Quran, and We have diversified the warnings 
in it, that perhaps they would become right-
eous, or it may produce a lesson for them.  
114. Exalted is Allah, the True King. Do not be 
hasty with the Quran before its inspiration to 
you is concluded, and say, “My Lord, increase 
me in knowledge.”  115. And We covenanted with Adam before, 
but he forgot, and We found i n him no re-
solve.  
116. And when We said to the angels, “Bow 
down to Adam.” They bowed down, except 
for Satan; he refused.  
117. We said, “O Adam, this is an enemy to you 
and to your wife. So do not let him make you 
leave the Garden, for then you will suffer . 
118. In it you will never go hungry, nor be na-
ked. 
119. Nor will you be thirsty in it, nor will you 
swelter.”  
120. But Satan whispered to him. He said, “O 
Adam, shall I show you the Tree of Immor-tality, and a kingdom that never decays?”  
121. And so they ate from it; whereupon their 
bodies became visible to them, and they 
started covering themselves with the leaves of the Garden. Thus Adam disobeyed his Lord, 
and fell.  
122. But then his Lord recalled him, and par-
doned him, and guided him.  
123. He said, “Go  down from it, altogether; 
some of you enemies of some others. But 
whenever guidance comes to you from Me, 
whoever follows My guidance, will not go 
astray, nor suffer.  
124. But whoever turns away from My Re-
minder, for him is a confined life. And We 
will ra ise him on the Day of Resurrection 
blind.”  
125. He will say, “My Lord, why did You raise 
me blind, though I was seeing?”  
126. He will say, “Just as Our revelations came 
to you, and you forgot them, today you will 
be forgotten.”  
127. Thus We recompense him who trans-
gresses and does not believe in the revelations 
of his Lord. The punishment of the Hereafter 
is more severe, and more lasting.  
128. Is it not instructive to them, how many 
generations before them We destroyed, in 
118 
