## 43.  DECORATIONS   (az-Zukhruf)  
10. He who made the earth a habitat for you, 
and traced pathways f or you on it, that you 
may be guided.  
11. He who sends down water from the sky in 
due proportion; and so We revive thereby a 
dead land. Thus you will be brought out.  
12. He Who created all the pairs; and provided 
you with ships, and animals on which you 
ride. 
13. That you may mount their backs, and re-
member the favor of your Lord as you sit 
firmly upon them, and say, “Glory be to Him 
Who placed these at our service; surely we 
could not have done it by ourselves.  
14. And surely, to our Lord we will return.”  
15. Yet they turn one of His servants into a part 
of Him. Man is clearly ungrateful.  
16. Or has He chosen for Himself daughters 
from what He creates, and favored you with 
sons?  
17. Yet when one of them is given news of what 
he attributes to the Most Gracious, his face darkens, and he suppresses grief.  
18. “Someone brought up to be beautiful, and 
unable to help in a fight?”  
19. And they appoint the angels, who are serv-
ants to the Most Gracious, as females. Have 
they witnessed their creation? Their claim 
will be recorded, and they will be questioned.  
20. And they say, “Had the Most Gracious 
willed, we would not have worshiped them.” 
But they have no knowledge of that; they are 
merely guessing.  
21. Or have We given them a book prior to this 
one, to which they a dhere?  
22. But they say, “We found our parents on a 
course, and we are guided in their footsteps.”  
23. Likewise, We sent no warner before you to 
any town, but the wealthy among them said, 
“We found our parents on a course, and we 
are following in their footsteps.” 
24. He would say, “Even if I bring you better 
guidance than what you found your parents following?” They would say, “We reject what 
you are sent with.”  
25. So We wreaked vengeance upon them. Be-
hold, then, what was the fate of those who 
deny.  
26. When Abraham said to his father and his 
people, “I am innocent of what you worship.  
27. Except for He who created me, for He will 
guide me.”  
28. And he made it an enduring word in his 
progeny, so that they may return.  
29. I gave these and their forefathe rs some en-
joyment, until the truth and a manifest mes-
senger came to them.  
30. But when the truth came to them, they 
said, “This is sorcery, and we refuse to believe 
in it.”  
31. They also said, “If only this Quran was sent 
down to a man of importance from t he two 
cities.”  
32. Is it they who allocate the mercy of your 
Lord? It is We who have allocated their live-
lihood in this life, and We elevated some of 
them in rank above others, that some of them 
would take others in service. But your Lord’s 
mercy is better than what they amass.  
33. Were it not that humanity would become a 
single community, We would have provided those who disbelieve in the Most Gracious 
with roofs of silver to their houses, and stair-
ways by which they ascend.  
34. And doors to their houses,  and furnishings 
on which they recline.  
35. And decorations. Yet all that is nothing but 
the stuff of this life. Yet the Hereafter, with your Lord, is for the righteous.  
36. Whoever shuns the remembrance of the 
Most Gracious, We assign for him a devil, to 
be his companion.  
37. They hinder them from the path, though 
they think they are guided.  
187 
