## 43.  DECORATIONS   (az-Zukhruf)  
38. Until, when He comes to Us, he will say, “If 
only there were between me and you the dis-
tance of the two Easts.” What an evil com-
panion!  
39. It will not benefit you  on that Day, since 
you did wrong. You are partners in the suf-
fering.  
40. Can you make the deaf hear, or guide the 
blind, and him who is in evident error?  
41. Even if We take you away, We will wreak 
vengeance upon them.  
42. Or show you what We have promise d 
them; for We have absolute power over them.  
43. So adhere to what is revealed to you. You 
are upon a straight path.  
44. It is a message for you, and for your people; 
and you will be questioned.  
45. Ask those of Our messengers We sent be-
fore you: “Did We appoint gods besides the 
Most Gracious to be worshiped?”  
46. We sent Moses with Our revelations to 
Pharaoh and his dignitaries. He said, “I am 
the Messenger of the Lord of the Worlds.”  
47. But when he showed them Our signs, they 
started laughing at them.  
48. Each sign We showed them was more mar-
velous than its counterpart. And We afflicted 
them with the plagues, so that they may re-
pent.  
49. They said, “O sorcerer, pray to your Lord 
for us, according to His pledge to you, and 
then we will be guided.”  
50. But when We lifted the torment from 
them, they immediately broke their promise.  
51. Pharaoh proclaimed among his people, 
saying, “O my people, do I not own the King-
dom of Egypt, and these rivers flow beneath 
me? Do you not see?  
52. Am I not better than this m iserable wretch, 
who can barely express himself?  
53. Why are bracelets of gold not dropped on 
him, or they angels came with him in proces-sion?”  54. Thus he fooled his people, and they obeyed 
him. They were wicked people.  
55. And when they provoked Our wrat h, We 
took retribution from them, and We drowned them all.  
56. Thus We made them a precedent and an 
example for the others.  
57. And when the son of Mary was cited as an 
example, your people opposed.  
58. They said, “Are our gods better, or he?” 
They cited him only for argument. In fact, they are a quarrelsome people.  
59. He was just a servant whom We blessed, 
and We made him an example for the Chil-dren of Israel.  
60. Had We willed, We would have made of 
you angels to be successors on earth.  
61. He is a porte nt of the Hour, so have no 
doubt about it, and follow Me. This is a straight way.  
62. And let not Satan divert you. He is an open 
enemy to you.  
63. When Jesus came with the clarifications, he 
said, “I have come to you with wisdom, and 
to clarify for you so me of what you differ 
about. So fear Allah, and obey me.  
64. Allah is my Lord and your Lord, so wor-
ship Him —this is a straight path.”  
65. But the factions differed among them-
selves. So woe to the wrongdoers from the 
suffering of a painful Day.  
66. Are they  only waiting for the Hour to come 
upon them suddenly, while they are una-
ware?  
67. On that Day, friends will be enemies of one 
another, except for the righteous.  
68. O My servants, you have nothing to fear on 
that Day, nor will you grieve.  
69. Those who be lieved in Our revelations, 
and were submissive.  
70. Enter the Garden, you and your spouses, 
Joyfully.  
188 
