## 19.  MARY   (Maryam)  
42. He said to his father, “O my father, why do 
you worship what can neither hear, nor see, 
nor b enefit you in any way?  
43. O my father, there has come to me 
knowledge that never came to you. So follow 
me, and I will guide you along a straight way.  
44. O my father, do not worship the devil. The 
devil is disobedient to the Most Gracious.  
45. O my fathe r, I fear that a punishment from 
the Most Gracious will afflict you, and you 
become an ally of the devil.”  
46. He said, “Are you renouncing my gods, O 
Abraham? If you do not desist, I will stone you. So leave me alone for a while.”  
47. He said, “Peace be u pon you. I will ask my 
Lord to forgive you; He has been Kind to me.  
48. And I will withdraw from you, and from 
what you pray to instead of Allah. And I will 
pray to my Lord, and I hope I will not be dis-
appointed in my prayer to my Lord.”  
49. When he withdr ew from them, and from 
what they worship besides Allah, We granted 
him Isaac and Jacob. And each We made a 
prophet.  
50. And We gave them freely of Our mercy, 
and gave them a noble reputation of truth.  
51. And mention in the Scripture Moses. He 
was dedicate d. He was a messenger and a 
prophet.  
52. And We called him from the right side of 
the Mount, and brought him near in com-munion.  
53. And We granted him, out of Our mercy, 
his brother Aaron, a prophet.  
54. And mention in the Scripture Ishmael. He 
was true to  his promise, and was a messenger, 
a prophet.  
55. And he used to enjoin on his people prayer 
and charity, and he was pleasing to his Lord.  
56. And mention in the Scripture Enoch. He 
was a man of truth, a prophet.  
57. And We raised him to a high position.  58. These are some of the prophets Allah has 
blessed, from the descendants of Adam, and 
from those We carried with Noah, and from 
the descendants of Abraham and Israel, and 
from those We guided and selected. When-
ever the revelations of the Most Gracious ar e 
recited to them, they would fall down, pros-
trating and weeping.  
59. But they were succeeded by generations 
who lost the prayers and followed their appe-
tites. They will meet perdition.  
60. Except for those who repent, and believe, 
and act righteously. The se will enter Paradise, 
and will not be wronged in the least.  
61. The Gardens of Eden, promised by the 
Most Merciful to His servants in the Unseen. 
His promise will certainly come true.  
62. They will hear no nonsense therein, but 
only peace. And they will have their provision 
therein, morning and evening.  
63. Such is Paradise which We will give as in-
heritance to those of Our servants who are 
devout.  
64. “We do not descend except by the com-
mand of your Lord. His is what is before us, and what is behind us, and what is between 
them. Your Lord is never forgetful.”  
65. Lord of the heavens and the earth and what 
is between them. So worship Him, and perse-vere in His service. Do you know of anyone 
equal to Him?  
66. And the human being says, “When I am 
dead, will I be brought back alive?”  
67. Does the human being not remember that 
We created him before, when he was noth-ing? 
68. By your Lord, We will round them up, and 
the devils, then We will bring them around 
Hell, on their knees.  
69. Then, out of every sect, We wil l snatch 
those most defiant to the Most Merciful.  
70. We are fully aware of those most deserving 
to scorch in it.  
113 
