## 25.  THE CRITERION   (al-Furqan)  
4. Those who disbelieve say, “This is nothing 
but a lie that he made up, and others have 
helped him at it.” They have committed an 
injustice and a perjury.  
5. And they say, “Tales of the ancients; he 
wrote them down; they are dictated to him 
morning and evening.”  
6. Say, “It was revealed by He who knows the 
Secret in the heavens and the earth. He is al-
ways Forgiving and Merciful.”  
7. And they say, “What sort of messenger is 
this, who eats food, and walks in the market-
places? If only an angel was sent down with 
him, to be alongside  him a warner.”  
8. Or, “If only a treasure was dropped on 
him.” Or, “If only he had a garden from 
which he eats.” The evildoers also say, “You 
are following but a man under spell.”  
9. Look how they invent examples for you. 
They have gone astray, and cannot  find a 
way.  
10. Blessed is He who, if He wills, can provide 
you with better than that— gardens beneath 
which rivers flow —and He will give you pal-
aces.  
11. In fact, they have denied the Hour, and We 
have prepared for those who deny the Hour a 
Blaze.  
12. Whe n it sees them from a distant place, 
they will hear it raging and roaring.  
13. And when they are thrown into it, into a 
tight place, shackled, they will plead there for 
death.  
14. “Do not plead for one death today, but 
plead for a great many deaths.”  
15. Say, “Is this better, or the Garden of Eter-
nity promised to the righteous? It is for them 
a reward and a destination.  
16. They will have therein whatever they de-
sire, forever. That is upon your Lord a bind-
ing promise.  
17. On the Day when He gathers them, and 
what they worshiped besides Allah, He will say, “Was it you who misled these servants of Mine, or was it they who lost the way?”  
18. They will say, “Glory be to You. It was not 
for us to take any lords besides You. But you 
gave them enjoyments, and their  ancestors, 
until they forgot the Message, and became ru-
ined people.”  
19. They have denied you because of what you 
say; so you can neither avert, nor help. Who-
ever among you commits injustice, We will 
make him taste a grievous punishment.  
20. We never sent  any messengers before you, 
but they ate food and walked in the market-
places. And We made some of you tempters 
for one another —will you be patient? Your 
Lord is always Observing.  
21. Those who do not expect to meet Us say, 
“If only the angels were sent dow n to us, or 
we could see our Lord.” They have grown ar-
rogant within themselves, and have become 
excessively defiant.  
22. On the Day when they see the angels —
there will be no good news for sinners on that 
Day; and they will say, “A protective refuge.”  
23. We will proceed to the works they did, and 
will turn them into scattered dust.  
24. The companions of Paradise on that Day 
will be better lodged, and more fairly accom-
modated.  
25. The Day when the sky is cleft with clouds, 
and the angels are sent down in str eams.  
26. On that Day, true sovereignty will belong 
to the Merciful, and it will be a difficult Day for the disbelievers.  
27. On that Day, the wrongdoer will bite his 
hands, and say, “If only I had followed the 
way with the Messenger.  
28. Oh, woe to me; I wish I never took so -and-
so for a friend.  
29. He led me away from the Message after it 
had come to me; for Satan has always been a betrayer of man.”  
30. And the Messenger will say, “My Lord, my 
people have abandoned this Quran.”  
134 
