## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Im ran) 
139. And do not waver, nor feel remorse. You 
are the superior ones, if you are believers.  
140. If a wound afflicts you, a similar wound 
has afflicted the others. Such days We alter-
nate between the people, that Allah may 
know those who believe, and take martyrs 
from among you. Allah does not love the evil-
doers.  
141. So that Allah may prove those who believe, 
and eliminate th e disbelievers.  
142. Or do you expect to enter Paradise, before 
Allah has distinguished those among you 
who strive, and before He has distinguished 
the steadfast?  
143. You used to wish for death before you 
have faced it. Now you have seen it before your own eyes.  
144. Muhammad is no more than a messenger. 
Messengers have passed on before him. If he 
dies or gets killed, will you turn on your 
heels? He who turns on his heels will not 
harm Allah in any way. And Allah will re-
ward the appreciative.  
145. No soul can die except by Allah’s leave, at 
a predetermined time. Whoever desires the 
reward of the world, We will give him some 
of it; and whoever desires the reward of the 
Hereafter, We will give him some of it; and 
We will reward the appreciative.  
146. How  many a prophet fought alongside 
him numerous godly people? They did not 
waver for what afflicted them in the cause of Allah, nor did they weaken, nor did they give 
in. Allah loves those who endure.  
147. Their only words were, “Our Lord, forgive 
us our off ences, and our excesses in our con-
duct, and strengthen our foothold, and help 
us against the disbelieving people.”  
148. So Allah gave them the reward of this 
world, and the excellent reward of the Here-
after. Allah loves the doers of good.  
149. O you who be lieve! If you obey those who 
disbelieve, they will turn you back on your 
heels, and you end up losers.  150. Allah is your Master, and He is the Best of 
Helpers.  
151. We will throw terror into the hearts of 
those who disbelieve, because they attribute 
to Al lah partners for which He revealed no 
sanction. Their lodging is the Fire. Miserable 
is the lodging of the evildoers.  
152. Allah has fulfilled His promise to you, and 
you defeated them by His leave; until when 
you faltered, and disputed the command, and 
disobeyed after He had shown you what you 
like. Some of you want this world, and some 
of you want the next. Then He turned you 
away from them, to test you; but He par-
doned you. Allah is Gracious towards the be-
lievers.  
153. Remember when you fled, not caring for 
anyone, even though the Messenger was call-
ing you from your rear. Then He repaid you with sorrow upon sorrow, so that you would 
not grieve over what you missed, or for what 
afflicted you. Allah is Informed of what you 
do. 
154. Then after the setback, H e sent down se-
curity upon you. Slumber overcame some of 
you, while others cared only for themselves, thinking of Allah thoughts that were un-
true—thoughts of ignorance —saying, “Is an-
ything up to us?” Say, “Everything is up to Al-
lah.” They conceal within the mselves what 
they do not reveal to you. And they say, “If it was up to us, none of us would have been 
killed here.” Say, “Even if you Had stayed in 
your homes, those destined to be killed would 
have marched into their death beds.” Allah 
thus tests what is in your minds, and purifies 
what is in your hearts. Allah knows what the 
hearts contain.  
155. Those of you who turned back on the day 
when the two armies clashed —it was Satan 
who caused them to backslide, on account of 
some of what they have earned. But Al lah has 
forgiven them. Allah is Forgiving and Pru-dent.  
156. O you who believe! Do not be like those 
who disbelieved, and said of their brethren 
24 
