## 57. IRON  (al-Hadid` ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Glorifying Allah is everything in the heav-
ens and the earth. He is the Almighty, the 
Wise.  
2. To Him belongs the kingdom of the heav-
ens and the earth. He gives life and causes 
death, and He has power over all things.  
3. He is the First and the Last, and the Outer 
and the Inner, and He has knowledge of all things.  
4. It is He who created the heavens and the 
earth in six days, then settled over the 
Throne. He knows what penetrates into the 
earth, and what comes out of it, and what de-
scends fro m the sky, and what ascends to it. 
And He is with you wherever you may be. Al-
lah is Seeing of everything you do.  
5. To Him belongs the kingship of the heavens 
and the earth, and to Allah all matters are re-
ferred.  
6. He merges the night into the day, and He 
merges the day into the night; and He knows 
what the hearts contains.  
7. Believe in Allah and His Messenger, and 
spend from what He made you inherit. Those 
among you who believe and give will have a 
great reward.  
8. What is the matter with you that you do not 
believe in Allah, when the Messenger calls 
you to believe in your Lord, and He has re-
ceived a pledge from you, if you are believers?  
9. It is He who sends down upon His servant 
clear revelations, to bring you out of darkness 
into the light. Allah is G entle towards you, 
Most Compassionate.  
10. And why is it that you do not spend in the 
cause of Allah, when to Allah belongs the in-heritance of the heavens and the earth? Not equal among you are those who contributed 
before the conquest, and fought. Those a re 
higher in rank than those who contributed afterwards, and fought. But Allah promises 
both a good reward. Allah is Well Experi-
enced in what you do.  
11. Who is he who will lend Allah a loan of 
goodness, that He may double it for him, and 
will have a gener ous reward?  
12. On the Day when you see the believing 
men and believing women —their light radi-
ating ahead of them, and to their right: “Good 
news for you today: gardens beneath which 
rivers flow, dwelling therein forever. That is 
the great triumph.”  
13. On the Day when the hypocritical men and 
hypocritical women will say to those who be-
lieved, “Wait for us; let us absorb some of 
your light.” It will be said, “Go back behind 
you, and seek light.” A wall will be raised be-
tween them, in which is a door; within  it is 
mercy, and outside it is agony.  
14. They will call to them, “Were we not with 
you?” They will say, “Yes, but you cheated 
your souls, and waited, and doubted, and be-
came deluded by wishful thinking, until the 
command of Allah arrived; and arrogance 
deceived you regarding Allah.” 
15. “Therefore, today no ransom will be ac-
cepted from you, nor from those who disbe-
lieved. The Fire is your refuge. It is your com-
panion —what an evil fate!”  
16. Is it not time for those who believe to sur-
render their hearts to  the remembrance of Al-
lah, and to the truth that has come down, and 
not be like those who were given the Book 
previously, but time became prolonged for 
them, so their hearts hardened, and many of them are sinners?  
17. Know that Allah revives the earth afte r its 
death. We thus explain the revelations for 
you, so that you may understand.  
18. The charitable men and charitable women, 
who have loaned Allah a loan of righteous-
ness—it will be multiplied for them, and for 
them is a generous reward.  
19. Those who be lieve in Allah and His mes-
sengers —these are the sincere and the wit-
209 
