## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
change to the dowry. Allah is All -Knowing, 
Most Wise.  
25. If any of you lack the means to marry free 
believing women, he may marry one of the 
believing maids under your control. Allah is 
well aware of your faith. You are from one 
another. Marry them with the permission of their guardians, and give them their recom-pense fairly —to be protected —neither com-
mitting adultery, nor taking secret lovers. When they are married, if they commit adul-
tery, their punishment shall be half that of 
free women. That is for those among you who 
fear falling into decadence. But to practice 
self-restraint is better fo r you. Allah is Most 
Forgiving, Most Merciful.  
26. Allah intends to make things clear to you, 
and to guide you in the ways of those before you, and to redeem you. Allah is Most Know-
ing, Most Wise.  
27. Allah intends to redeem you, but those 
who follow their  desires want you to turn 
away utterly.  
28. Allah intends to lighten your burden, for 
the human being was created weak.  
29. O you who believe! Do not consume each 
other’s wealth illicitly, but trade by mutual 
consent. And do not kill yourselves, for Allah 
is Merciful towards you.  
30. Whoever does that, out of hostility and 
wrongdoing, We will cast him into a Fire. 
And that would be easy for Allah.  
31. If you avoid the worst of what you are for-
bidden, We will remit your sins, and admit 
you by a Gate of Honor . 
32. Do not covet what Allah has given to some 
of you in preference to others. For men is a 
share of what they have earned, and for 
women is a share of what they have earned. 
And ask Allah of his bounty. Allah has 
knowledge of everything.  
33. To everyone We have assigned beneficiar-
ies in what is left by parents and relatives. 
Those with whom you have made an agree-
ment, give them their share. Allah is Witness 
over all things.  34. Men are the protectors and maintainers of 
women, as Allah has given some of th em an 
advantage over others, and because they 
spend out of their wealth. The good women 
are obedient, guarding what Allah would 
have them guard. As for those from whom 
you fear disloyalty, admonish them, and 
abandon them in their beds, then strike them. 
But if they obey you, seek no way against 
them. Allah is Sublime, Great.  
35. If you fear a breach between the two, ap-
point an arbiter from his family and an arbi-ter from her family. If they wish to reconcile, 
Allah will bring them together. Allah is 
Knowledgeable, Expert.  
36. Worship Allah, and ascribe no partners to 
Him, and be good to the parents, and the rel-
atives, and the orphans, and the poor, and the neighbor next door, and the distant neighbor, 
and the close associate, and the traveler, and 
your servan ts. Allah does not love the arro-
gant showoff.  
37. Those who are stingy, and exhort people to 
stinginess, and conceal what Allah has given them from His bounty. We have prepared for 
the disbelievers a disgraceful punishment.  
38. And those who spend their money to be 
seen by people, and believe neither in Allah 
nor in the Last Day. Whoever has Satan as a companion —what an evil companion.  
39. What would they have lost, had they be-
lieved in Allah and the Last Day, and gave out 
of what Allah has provided for the m? Allah 
knows them very well.  
40. Allah does not commit an atom's weight of 
injustice; and if there is a good deed, He dou-bles it, and gives from His Presence a sublime 
compensation.  
41. Then how will it be, when We bring a wit-
ness from every community, and We bring you as a witness against these?  
42. On that Day, those who disbelieved and 
disobeyed the Messenger will wish that the 
earth were leveled over them. They will con-
ceal nothing from Allah.  
29 
