## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
94. Whoever forges lies about Allah after 
that—these are the unjust.  
95. Say, “Allah has spoken the truth, so follow 
the religion of Abraham the Monotheist; he 
was not a Pagan.”  
96. The f irst house established for mankind is 
the one at Bekka; blessed, and guidance for all 
people.  
97. In it are evident signs; the Station of Abra-
ham. Whoever enters it attains security. Pil-
grimage to the House is a duty to Allah for all 
who can make the journ ey. But as for those 
who refuse —Allah is Independent of the 
worlds.  
98. Say, “O People of the Scripture, why do you 
reject the Revelations of Allah, when Allah 
witnesses what you do?”  
99. Say, “O People of the Scripture, why do you 
hinder from Allah’s path those who believe, 
seeking to distort it, even though you are wit-nesses? Allah is not unaware of what you do.”  
100. O you who believe! If you obey a party of 
those who were given the Scripture, they will 
turn you, after your belief, into disbelievers.  
101. And how could you disbelieve, when Al-
lah’s revelations are being recited to you, and among you is His Messenger? Whoever 
cleaves to Allah has been guided to a straight 
path.  
102. O you who believe! Revere Allah with due 
reverence, and do not die except a s Muslims.  
103. And hold fast to the rope of Allah, alto-
gether, and do not become divided. And re-
member Allah’s blessings upon you; how you were enemies, and He reconciled your hearts, 
and by His grace you became brethren. And 
you were on the brink of a pi t of fire, and He 
saved you from it. Allah thus clarifies His rev-elations for you, so that you may be guided.  
104. And let there be among you a community 
calling to virtue, and advocating righteous-
ness, and deterring from evil. These are the 
successful.  105. And do not be like those who separated 
and disputed after the clear proofs came to them; for them is a great punishment.  
106. On the Day when some faces will be whit-
ened, and some faces will be blackened. As 
for those whose faces are blackened: “Did you  
disbelieve after your belief?” Then taste the 
punishment for having disbelieved.  
107. But as for those whose faces are whitened: 
they are in Allah’s mercy, remaining in it for-
ever.  
108. These are the revelations of Allah. We re-
cite them to you in truth. Allah desires no in-
justice for mankind.  
109. To Allah belongs everything in the heav-
ens and everything on earth, and to Allah all events are referred.  
110. You are the best community that ever 
emerged for humanity: you advocate what is 
moral, and forbid what is immoral, and be-
lieve in Allah. Had the People of the Scripture 
believed, it would have been better for them. 
Among them are the believers, but most of 
them are sinners.  
111. They will do you no harm, beyond insult-
ing you. And if they fight you, they w ill turn 
around and flee, then they will not be helped.  
112. They shall be humiliated wherever they 
are encountered, except through a rope from 
Allah, and a rope from the people; and they 
incurred wrath from Allah, and were stricken with misery. That is be cause they rejected Al-
lah’s revelations, and killed the prophets un-
justly. That is because they rebelled and com-
mitted aggression.  
113. They are not alike. Among the People of 
the Scripture is a community that is upright; 
they recite Allah’s revelations th roughout the 
night, and they prostrate themselves.  
114. They believe in Allah and the Last Day, 
and advocate righteousness and forbid evil, and are quick to do good deeds. These are 
among the righteous.  
115. Whatever good they do, they will not be 
denied it. Allah knows the righteous.  
22 
