## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
him, his mother gets one -third. If he has sib-
lings, his mother gets one -sixth. After ful-
filling any bequest and paying off debts. Your 
parents and your children— you do not know 
which are closer to you in welfare. Thi s is Al-
lah's Law. Allah is Knowing and Judicious.  
12. You get one -half of what your wives leave 
behind, if they had no children. If they had 
children, you get one -fourth of what they 
leave. After fulfilling any bequest and paying 
off debts. They get one- fourth of what you 
leave behind, if you have no children. If you 
have children, they get one- eighth of what 
you leave. After fulfilling any bequest and 
paying off debts. If a man or woman leaves 
neither parents nor children, but has a 
brother or sister, each of them gets one -sixth. 
If there are more siblings, they share one-
third. After fulfilling any bequest and paying 
off debts, without any prejudice. This is a will 
from Allah. Allah is Knowing and Clement.  
13. These are the bounds set by Allah. Who-
ever obeys Allah and His Messenger, He will 
admit him into Gardens beneath which rivers 
flow, to abide therein forever. That is the 
great attainment.  
14. But whoever disobeys Allah and His Mes-
senger, and oversteps His bounds, He will ad-mit him into a Fire, wherein  he abides for-
ever, and he will have a shameful punish-
ment.  
15. Those of your women who commit lewd-
ness, you must have four witnesses against 
them, from among you. If they testify, con-
fine them to the homes until death claims 
them, or Allah makes a way for  them.  
16. If two men among you commit it, punish 
them both. But if they repent and reform, 
leave them alone. Allah is Redeemer, Full of 
Mercy.  
17. Repentance is available from Allah for 
those who commit evil out of ignorance, and 
then repent soon after. These —Allah will re-
lent towards them. Allah is Knowing and 
Wise.  18. But repentance is not available for those 
who commit evils, until when death ap-
proaches one of them, he says, “Now I re-
pent,” nor for those who die as disbelievers. 
These —We have prepared  for them a painful 
torment.  
19. O you who believe! It is not permitted for 
you to inherit women against their will. And do not coerce them in order to take away 
some of what you had given them, unless they 
commit a proven adultery. And live with 
them in k indness. If you dislike them, it may 
be that you dislike something in which Allah 
has placed much good.  
20. If you wish to replace one wife with an-
other, and you have given one of them a for-
tune, take nothing back from it. Would you 
take it back fraudulent ly and sinfully?  
21. And how can you take it back, when you 
have been intimate with one another, and 
they have received from you a solid commit-
ment?  
22. Do not marry women whom your fathers 
married, except what is already past. That is 
improper, indecent, and a bad custom.  
23. Forbidden for you are your mothers, your 
daughters, your sisters, your paternal aunts, your maternal aunts, your brother's daugh-
ters, your sister's daughters, your foster -
mothers who nursed you, your sisters 
through nursing, your wives' mothers, and 
your stepdaughters in your guardianship —
born of wives you have gone into —but if you 
have not gone into them, there is no blame on 
you. And the wives of your genetic sons, and 
marrying two sisters simultaneously. Except what is past. All ah is Oft -Forgiving, Most 
Merciful.  
24. And all married women, except those you 
rightfully possess. This is Allah’s decree, 
binding upon you. Permitted for you are 
those that lie outside these limits, provided 
you seek them in legal marriage, with gifts 
from your property, seeking wedlock, not 
prostitution. If you wish to enjoy them, then give them their dowry —a legal obligation. 
You commit no error by agreeing to any 
28 
