## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
22. He who made the earth a habitat for you, 
and the sky a structure, and sends water 
down from the sky, and brings out fruits 
thereby, as a sustenance for you. T herefore, 
do not assign rivals to Allah while you know.  
23. And if you are in doubt about what We 
have revealed to Our servant, then produce a 
chapter like these, and call your witnesses 
apart from Allah, if you are truthful.  
24. But if you do not— and you will not —then 
beware the Fire whose fuel is people and stones, prepared for the disbelievers.  
25. And give good news to those who believe 
and do righteous deeds; that they will have 
gardens beneath which rivers flow. When-
ever they are provided with fruit t herefrom as 
sustenance, they will say, “This is what we 
were provided with before,” and they will be 
given the like of it. And they will have pure 
spouses therein, and they will abide therein 
forever.  
26. Allah does not shy away from making an 
example of a  gnat, or something above it. As 
for those who believe, they know that it is the 
Truth from their Lord. But as for those who 
disbelieve, they say, “What did Allah intend 
by this example?” He leads astray many 
thereby, and He guides many thereby; but He 
misleads thereby only the evildoers.  
27. Those who violate Allah’s covenant after its 
confirmation, and sever what Allah has com-
manded to be joined, and commit evil on 
earth. These are the losers.  
28. How can you deny Allah, when you were 
dead and He gave yo u life, then He will put 
you to death, then He will bring you to life, then to Him you will be returned?  
29. It is He who created for you everything on 
earth, then turned to the heaven, and made 
them seven heavens. And He is aware of all 
things.  
30. When your Lord said to the angels, “I am 
placing a successor on earth.” They said, 
“Will You place in it someone who will cause corruption in it and shed blood, while we de-
clare Your praises and sanctify You?” He 
said, “I know what you do not know.”  
31. And He taught Adam the names, all of 
them; then he presented them to the angels, 
and said, “Tell Me the names of these, if you 
are sincere.”  
32. They said, “Glory be to You! We have no 
knowledge except what You have taught us. 
It is you who are the Knowledgeable,  the 
Wise.”  
33. He said, “O Adam, tell them their names.” 
And when he told them their names, He said, “Did I not tell you that I know the secrets of 
the heavens and the earth, and that I know 
what you reveal and what you conceal?”  
34. And We said to the an gels, “Bow down to 
Adam.” They bowed down, except for Satan. 
He refused, was arrogant, and was one of the 
disbelievers.  
35. We said, “O Adam, inhabit the Garden, 
you and your spouse, and eat from it freely as 
you please, but do not approach this tree, lest  
you become wrongdoers.”  
36. But Satan caused them to slip from it, and 
caused them to depart the state they were in. We said, “Go down, some of you enemies of 
one another. And you will have residence on 
earth, and enjoyment for a while.”  
37. Then Adam rec eived words from his Lord, 
so He relented towards him. He is the Relent-ing, the Merciful.  
38. We said, “Go down from it, all of you. Yet 
whenever guidance comes to you from Me, 
then whoever follows My guidance —they 
have nothing to fear, nor shall they gri eve. 
39. But as for those who disbelieve and reject 
Our signs —these are the inmates of the 
Fire— wherein they will remain forever.”  
40. O Children of Israel! Remember My bless-
ings which I bestowed upon you, and fulfill 
your pledge to Me, and I will fulfill My pledge 
to you, and fear Me.  
41. And believe in what I revealed, confirming 
what is with you; and do not be the first to 
2 
