## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
eat, and what you store in your home s. In that 
is a sign for you, if you are believers.”  
50. “And verifying what lies before me of the 
Torah, and to make lawful for you some of 
what was forbidden to you. I have come to 
you with a sign from your Lord; so fear Allah, and obey me.”  
51. “Allah i s my Lord and your Lord, so wor-
ship Him. That is a straight path.”  
52. When Jesus sensed disbelief on their part, 
he said, “Who are my allies towards Allah?” 
The disciples said, “We are Allah’s allies; we 
have believed in Allah, and bear witness that 
we su bmit.”  
53. “Our Lord, we have believed in what You 
have revealed, and we have followed the Mes-
senger, so count us among the witnesses.”  
54. They planned, and Allah planned; but Al-
lah is the Best of planners.  
55. Allah said, “O Jesus, I am terminating your  
life, and raising you to Me, and clearing you 
of those who disbelieve. And I will make those who follow you superior to those who 
disbelieve, until the Day of Resurrection. 
Then to Me is your return; then I will judge 
between you regarding what you were d is-
puting.  
56. As for those who disbelieve, I will punish 
them with a severe punishment, in this world 
and the next, and they will have no helpers.  
57. And as for those who believe and do good 
works, He will give them their rewards in full. 
Allah does not l ove the unjust.”  
58. This is what We recite to you of the Verses 
and the Wise Reminder.  
59. The likeness of Jesus in Allah’s sight is that 
of Adam: He created him from dust, then said to him, “Be,” and he was.  
60. The truth is from your Lord, so do not be 
of those who doubt.  
61. And if anyone disputes with you about 
him, after the knowledge that has come to 
you, say, “Come, let us call our children and your children, and our women and your women, and ourselves and yourselves, and let 
us invoke Allah’s curse  on the liars.”  
62. This is the narrative of truth: there is no 
god but Allah. Allah is the Mighty, the Wise.  
63. But if they turn away —Allah knows the 
corrupt.  
64. Say, “O People of the Book, come to terms 
common between us and you: that we wor-
ship none b ut Allah, and that we associate 
nothing with Him, and that none of us takes 
others as lords besides Allah.” And if they 
turn away, say, “Bear witness that we have 
submitted.”  
65. O People of the Book! Why do you argue 
about Abraham, when the Torah and the  
Gospel were not revealed until after him? 
Will you not reason?  
66. Here you are— you argue about things you 
know, but why do you argue about things you 
do not know? Allah knows, and you do not 
know.  
67. Abraham was neither a Jew nor a Chris-
tian, but he wa s a Monotheist, a Muslim. And 
he was not of the Polytheists.  
68. The people most deserving of Abraham are 
those who followed him, and this prophet, 
and those who believe. Allah is the Guardian 
of the believers.  
69. A party of the People of the Book would 
love to lead you astray, but they only lead 
themselves astray, and they do not realize it.  
70. O People of the Book! Why do you reject 
the revelations of Allah, even as you witness?  
71. O People of the Book! Why do you con-
found the truth with falsehood, and  know-
ingly conceal the truth?  
72. Some of the People of the Book say, “Be-
lieve in what was revealed to the believers at 
the beginning of the day, and reject it at its 
end, so that they may return.”  
73. And trust none except those who follow 
your religion.” Say, “Guidance is Allah’s 
guidance. If someone is given the like of what 
you were given, or they argue with you before 
your Lord, say, “All grace is in Allah’s hand; 
20 
