## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
share in the Hereafter. A terrible torment 
awaits them.  
177. Those who exchange blasphemy for faith 
will not harm Allah in the leas t. A painful tor-
ment awaits them.  
178. Those who disbelieve should not assume 
that We respite them for their own good. In 
fact, We only respite them so that they may 
increase in sinfulness. A humiliating torment 
awaits them.  
179. Allah will not leave the b elievers as you 
are, without distinguishing the wicked from 
the sincere. Nor will Allah inform you of the future, but Allah elects from among His mes-
sengers whom He wills. So believe in Allah 
and His messengers. If you believe and prac-
tice piety, you will have a splendid reward.  
180. Those who withhold what Allah has given 
them of his bounty should not assume that is 
good for them. In fact, it is bad for them. They will be encircled by their hoardings on 
the Day of Resurrection. To Allah belongs the 
inherit ance of the heavens and the earth, and 
Allah is well acquainted with what you do.  
181. Allah has heard the statement of those 
who said, “Allah is poor, and we are rich.” We will write down what they said, and their wrongful killing of the prophets; and We will 
say, “Taste the torment of the burning.”  
182. “This is on account of what your hands 
have forwarded, and because Allah is not un-
just towards the creatures.”  
183. Those who said, “Allah has made a cove-
nant with us, that we shall not believe in any 
mess enger unless he brings us an offering to 
be consumed by fire.” Say, “Messengers have 
come to you before me with proofs, and with 
what you asked for; so why did you assassi-
nate them, if you are truthful?”  
184. If they accuse you of lying, messengers be-
fore you were accused of lying. They came 
with the proofs, and the Psalms, and the Illu-minating Scripture.  
185. Every soul will have a taste of death, and 
you will receive your recompense on the Day 
of Resurrection. Whoever is swayed from the Fire, and admitted  to Paradise, has won. The 
life of this world is merely enjoyment of de-lusion.  
186. You will be tested through your posses-
sions and your persons; and you will hear 
from those who received the Scripture before 
you, and from the idol worshipers, much 
abuse. But if you persevere and lead a right-
eous life— that indeed is a mark of great de-
term ination.  
187. Allah received a pledge from those who 
were given the Scripture: “You shall proclaim it to the people, and not conceal it.” But they 
disregarded it behind their backs, and ex-
changed it for a small price. What a miserable 
exchange they made.  
188. Do not think that those who rejoice in 
what they have done, and love to be praised 
for what they have not done —do not think 
they can evade the punishment. They will 
have a painful punishment.  
189. To Allah belongs the sovereignty of the 
heavens and th e earth. Allah has power over 
all things.  
190. In the creation of the heavens and the 
earth, and in the alternation of night and day, 
are signs for people of understanding.  
191. Those who remember Allah while stand-
ing, and sitting, and on their sides; and they 
reflect upon the creation of the heavens and 
the earth: “Our Lord, You did not create this 
in vain, glory to You, so protect us from the 
punishment of the Fire.”  
192. “Our Lord, whomever You commit to the 
Fire, You have disgraced. The wrongdoers 
will have no helpers.”  
193. “Our Lord, we have heard a caller calling 
to the faith: `Believe in your Lord,' and we 
have believed. Our Lord! Forgive us our sins, and remit our misdeeds, and make us die in 
the company of the virtuous.”  
194. “Our Lord, and give us  what You have 
promised us through Your messengers, and do not disgrace us on the Day of Resurrec-
tion. Surely You never break a promise.”  
26 
