## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
116. As for those who disbelieve, neither their 
possessions nor their children will avail them 
anything against Allah. These are the inhab-
itants of the Fire, abiding therein forever.  
117. The parable of what they spend in this  
worldly life is that of a frosty wind that strikes 
the harvest of a people who have wronged 
their souls, and destroys it. Allah did not 
wrong them, but they wronged their own 
selves.  
118. O you who believe! Do not befriend out-
siders who never cease to wis h you harm. 
They love to see you suffer. Hatred has al-
ready appeared from their mouths, but what 
their hearts conceal is worse. We have made 
the messages clear for you, if you understand.  
119. There you are, you love them, but they do 
not love you, and you  believe in the entire 
scripture. And when they meet you, they say, 
“We believe;” but when they are alone, they 
bite their fingers in rage at you. Say, “Die in 
your rage; Allah knows what is within the 
hearts.”  
120. If something good happens to you, it up-
sets them; but if something bad befalls you, 
they rejoice at it. But if you persevere and 
maintain righteousness, their schemes will 
not harm you at all. Allah comprehends what 
they do.  
121. Remember when you left your home in the 
morning, to assign battle -positions for the 
believers. Allah is Hearing and Knowing.  
122. When two groups among you almost fal-
tered, but Allah was their Protector. So in Al-
lah let the believers put their trust.  
123. Allah had given you victory at Badr, when 
you were weak. So fear A llah, that you may be 
thankful.  
124. When you said to the believers, “Is it not 
enough for you that your Lord has reinforced 
you with three thousand angels, sent down?”  
125. It is; but if you persevere and remain cau-
tious, and they attack you suddenly, your Lord will reinforce you with five thousand 
angels, well trained.  126. Allah made it but a message of hope for 
you, and to reassure your hearts thereby. Vic-
tory comes only from Allah the Almighty, the 
Wise.  
127. He thus cuts off a section of those who dis-
believed, or subdues them, so they retreat dis-
appointed.  
128. It is no concern of yours whether He re-
deems them or punishes them. They are 
wrongdoers.  
129. To Allah belongs everything in the heav-
ens and the earth. He forgives whom He wills, 
and He punishe s whom He wills. Allah is 
Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.  
130. O you who believe! Do not feed on usury, 
compounded over and over, and fear Allah, 
so that you may prosper.  
131. And guard yourselves against the Fire that 
is prepared for the disbelievers.  
132. And obey Allah and the Messenger, that 
you may obtain mercy.  
133. And race towards forgiveness from your 
Lord, and a Garden as wide as the heavens and the earth, prepared for the righteous.  
134. Those who give in prosperity and adver-
sity, and those who r estrain anger, and those 
who forgive people. Allah loves the doers of good.  
135. And those who, when they commit an in-
decency or wrong themselves, remember Al-
lah and ask forgiveness for their sins —and 
who forgives sins except Allah? And they do 
not persist  in their wrongdoing while they 
know.  
136. Those —their reward is forgiveness from 
their Lord, and gardens beneath which rivers flow, abiding therein forever. How excellent 
is the reward of the workers.  
137. Many societies have passed away before 
you. So travel the earth and note the fate of 
the deniers.  
138. This is a proclamation to humanity, and 
guidance, and advice for the righteous.  
23 
