## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
who marched in the land, or went on the of-
fensive, “Had they stayed with us, they would 
not have died or been ki lled.” So that Allah 
may make it a cause of regret in their hearts. 
Allah gives life and causes death. Allah is See-
ing of what you do.  
157. If you are killed in the cause of Allah, or 
die— forgiveness and mercy from Allah are 
better than what they hoard.  
158. If you die, or are killed —to Allah you will 
be gathered up.  
159. It is by of grace from Allah that you were 
gentle with them. Had you been harsh, hard-
hearted, they would have dispersed from 
around you. So pardon them, and ask for-
giveness for them, and c onsult them in the 
conduct of affairs. And when you make a de-
cision, put your trust in Allah; Allah loves the 
trusting.  
160. If Allah supports you, there is none who 
can overcome you. But if He fails you, who is 
there to help you after Him? So in Allah let  
the believers put their trust.  
161. It is not for a prophet to act dishonestly. 
Whoever acts dishonestly will bring his dis-honesty on the Day of Resurrection. Then 
every soul will be paid in full for what it has 
earned, and they will not be wronged.  
162. Is someone who pursues Allah's approval 
the same as someone who incurs Allah's 
wrath and his refuge is Hell —the miserable 
destination?  
163. They have different ranks with Allah, and 
Allah is Seeing of what they do.  
164. Allah has blessed the believers, as He 
raised up among them a messenger from 
among themselves, who recites to them His 
revelations, and purifies them, and teaches 
them the Scripture and wisdom; although be-
fore that they were in evident error.  
165. And when a calamity befell you, even after 
you had inflicted twice as much, you said, 
“How is this?” Say, “It is from your own selves.” Allah is Able to do all things.  166. What befell you on the day the two armies 
clashed was with Allah’s permission; that He 
may know the believers.  
167. And that He  may know the hypocrites. 
And it was said to them, “Come, fight in the 
cause of Allah, or contribute.” They said, “If 
we knew how to fight, we would have fol-
lowed you.” On that day they were closer to 
infidelity than they were to faith. They say 
with their  mouths what is not in their hearts; 
but Allah knows what they hide.  
168. Those who said of their brethren, as they 
stayed behind, “Had they obeyed us, they would not have been killed.” Say, “Then avert 
death from yourselves, if you are truthful.”  
169. Do not consider those killed in the cause 
of Allah as dead. In fact, they are alive, at their 
Lord, well provided for.  
170. Delighting in what Allah has given them 
out of His grace, and happy for those who have not yet joined them; that they have 
nothing to f ear, nor will they grieve.  
171. They rejoice in grace from Allah, and 
bounty, and that Allah will not waste the re-
ward of the faithful.  
172. Those who responded to Allah and the 
Messenger, despite the persecution they had 
suffered. For the virtuous and the  pious 
among them is a great reward.  
173. Those to whom the people have said, “The 
people have mobilized against you, so fear them.” But this only increased them in faith, and they said, “Allah is enough for us; He is 
the Excellent Protector.”  
174. So they  came back with grace from Allah, 
and bounty, and no harm having touched them. They pursued what pleases Allah. Al-
lah possesses immense grace.  
175. That is only Satan frightening his parti-
sans; so do not fear them, but fear Me, if you 
are believers.  
176. And do not be saddened by those who 
rush into disbelief. They will not harm Allah 
in the least. Allah desires to give them no 
25 
