## 58.  THE ARGUMENT   (al-Mujadilah)  
of Allah. The unbelievers will have a painful 
punishment.  
5. Those who oppose Allah and His Messen-
ger will be subdued, as those before them 
were subdued. We have revealed clear mes-
sages. The unbelievers will have a demeaning punishment.  
6. On the Day when Allah resurrects them all, 
and informs them of what they did. Allah has 
kept count of it, but they have forgotten it. 
Allah is Witness over everything.  
7. Do you not realize that Allah knows every-
thing in the heavens and everything on earth? 
There is no secret counsel between three, but 
He is their fourth; nor between five, but He is 
their sixth; nor less than that, nor more, but 
He is with them wherever they may be. Then, 
on the Day of Resurrection, He will inform 
them of what they did. Allah has knowledge 
of everything.  
8. Have you noted those who were prohibited 
from conspiring secretly, but then reverted to 
what they were prohibited from? They con-spire to commit sin, and aggression, and de-
fiance of the Messenger. And when they 
come to you, they greet you with a greeting 
that Allah never greeted you with. And they 
say within themselves, “Why does Allah not 
punish us for what we say?” Hell is enough 
for them. They will roast in it. What a miser-
able destiny!  
9. O you who believe! When you conve rse se-
cretly, do not converse in sin, and aggression, 
and disobedience of the Messenger; but con-
verse in virtue and piety; And fear Allah, to 
Whom you will be gathered.  
10. Conspiracies are from Satan, that he may 
dishearten those who believe; but he will not 
harm them in the least, except by leave of Al-
lah. So let the believers put their trust in Al-
lah. 
11. O you who believe! When you are told to 
make room in your gatherings, make room; 
Allah will make room for you. And when you are told to disperse, disperse. Allah elevates 
those among you who believe, and those given knowledge, many steps. Allah is Aware 
of what you do.  
12. O you who believe! When you converse 
privately with the Messenger, offer some-
thing in charity before your conversation. 
That is bette r for you, and purer. But if you 
do not find the means —Allah is Forgiving 
and Merciful.  
13. Are you reluctant to offer charity before 
your conversation? If you do not do so, and 
Allah pardons you, then perform the prayer, 
and give alms, and obey Allah and His Mes-
senger. Allah is Aware of what you do.  
14. Have you considered those who befriended 
a people with whom Allah has become angry? 
They are not of you, nor of them. And they 
swear to a lie while they know.  
15. Allah has prepared for them a terrible pun-
ishment. Evil is what they used to do.  
16. They took their oaths as a screen, and pre-
vented others from Allah’s path. They will have a shameful punishment.  
17. Neither their possessions nor their chil-
dren will avail them anything against Allah. 
These are th e inhabitants of the Fire, dwelling 
therein forever.  
18. On the Day when Allah will resurrect them 
altogether —they will swear to Him, as they 
swear to you, thinking that they are upon something. Indeed, they themselves are the liars.  
19. Satan has taken ho ld of them, and so has 
caused them to forget the remembrance of 
Allah. These are the partisans of Satan. In-
deed, it is Satan’s partisans who are the losers.  
20. Those who oppose Allah and His Messen-
ger are among the lowliest.  
21. Allah has written: “I will  certainly prevail, I 
and My messengers.” Allah is Strong and 
Mighty.  
22. You will not find a people who believe in 
Allah and the Last Day, loving those who op-pose Allah and His Messenger, even if they 
were their parents, or their children, or their 
siblin gs, or their close relatives. These —He 
211 
