## 3.  FAMILY OF IMRAN   (Ali ‘Imran)  
He gives it to whomever He wills.” Allah is 
Bounteous and Knowing.  
74. He specifies His m ercy for whomever He 
wills. Allah is Possessor of Sublime Grace.  
75. Among the People of the Book is he, who, 
if you entrust him with a heap of gold, he will 
give it back to you. And among them is he, 
who, if you entrust him with a single coin, he 
will not  give it back to you, unless you keep 
after him. That is because they say, “We are 
under no obligation towards the gentiles.” 
They tell lies about Allah, and they know it.  
76. Indeed, whoever fulfills his commitments 
and maintains piety —Allah loves the pio us. 
77. Those who exchange the covenant of Allah, 
and their vows, for a small price, will have no 
share in the Hereafter, and Allah will not speak to them, nor will He look at them on 
the Day of Resurrection, nor will He purify 
them. They will have a painf ul punishment.  
78. And among them are those who twist the 
Scripture with their tongues, that you may 
think it from the Scripture, when it is not 
from the Scripture. And they say, “It is from 
Allah,” when it is not from Allah. They tell 
lies and attribute t hem to Allah, knowingly.  
79. No person to whom Allah has given the 
Scripture, and wisdom, and prophethood would ever say to the people, “Be my wor-
shipers rather than Allah’s.” Rather, “Be peo-
ple of the Lord, according to the Scripture 
you teach, and the te achings you learn.”  
80. Nor would he command you to take the 
angels and the prophets as lords. Would he 
command you to infidelity after you have 
submitted?  
81. Allah received the covenant of the proph-
ets, “Inasmuch as I have given you of scrip-
ture and wisd om; should a messenger come 
to you verifying what you have, you shall be-
lieve in him, and support him.” He said, “Do 
you affirm My covenant and take it upon 
yourselves?” They said, “We affirm it.” He 
said, “Then bear witness, and I am with you 
among the wi tnesses.”  82. Whoever turns away after that —these are 
the deceitful.  
83. Do they desire other than the religion of 
Allah, when to Him has submitted everything 
in the heavens and the earth, willingly or un-
willingly, and to Him they will be returned?  
84. Say, “We believe in Allah, and in what was 
revealed to us; and in what was revealed to 
Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and Jacob, and the Patriarchs; and in what was given to 
Moses, and Jesus, and the prophets from 
their Lord. We make no distinction between 
any of them, and to Him we submit.”  
85. Whoever seeks other than Islam as a reli-
gion, it will not be accepted from him, and in the Hereafter he will be among the losers.  
86. How will Allah guide a people who disbe-
lieved after having believed, and had wit-
nessed that the Messenger is true, and the 
clear proofs had come to them? Allah does 
not guide the unjust people.  
87. Those —their penalty is that upon them 
falls the curse of Allah, and of the angels, and 
of all mankind.  
88. Remaining in it eternally, withou t their 
punishment being eased from them, and 
without being reprieved.  
89. Except those who repent afterwards, and 
reform; for Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
90. As for those who disbelieve after having 
believed, then plunge deeper into disbelief, 
their repentance will not be accepted; these 
are the lost.  
91. As for those who disbelieve and die disbe-
lievers, even the earth full of gold would not be accepted from any of them, were he to of-
fer it for ransom. These will have a painful 
torment, and will have no saviors.  
92. You will not attain virtuous conduct until 
you give of what you cherish. Whatever you 
give away, Allah is aware of it.  
93. All food was permissible to the Children of 
Israel, except what Israel forbade for itself be-
fore the Torah was revealed. Say, “Bring the 
Torah, and read it, if you are truthful.”  
21 
