## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
95. Not equal are the inactive amo ng the be-
lievers —except the disabled —and the striv-
ers in the cause of Allah with their posses-
sions and their persons. Allah prefers the 
strivers with their possessions and their per-
sons above the inactive, by a degree. But Al-
lah has promised goodness to both. Yet Allah 
favors the strivers, over the inactive, with a 
great reward.  
96. Degrees from Him, and forgiveness, and 
mercy. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
97. While the angels are removing the souls of 
those who have wronged themselves, they 
will say, “What was the matter with you?” 
They will say, “We were oppressed in the 
land.” They will say, “Was Allah’s earth not 
vast enough for you to emigrate in it?” 
These —their refuge is Hell. What a wretched 
retreat!  
98. Except for the weak among men, and 
women, and children who have no means to 
act, and no means to find a way out.  
99. These— Allah may well pardon them. Allah 
is Pardoning and Forgiving.  
100. Anyone who emigrates for the sake of Al-
lah will find on earth many places of refuge, 
and plentitude. Anyone who leaves his home, emigrating to Allah and His Messenger, and 
then is overtaken by death, his compensation 
falls on Allah. Allah is Forgiver, Most Merci-
ful. 
101. When you travel in the land, there is no 
blame on you for shortening the prayers, if 
you fea r that the disbelievers may harm you. 
The disbelievers are your manifest enemies.  
102. When you are among them, and you stand 
to lead them in prayer, let a group of them stand with you, and let them hold their weap-ons. Then, when they have done their pros-
trations, let them withdraw to the rear, and 
let another group, that have not prayed yet, 
come forward and pray with you; and let 
them take their precautions and their weap-
ons. Those who disbelieve would like you to 
neglect your weapons and your equipment, 
so they can attack you in a single assault. You 
commit no error, if you are hampered by rain or are sick, by putting down your weapons; 
but take precautions. Indeed, Allah has pre-
pared for the disbelievers a demeaning pun-
ishment.  
103. When you have complet ed the prayer, re-
member Allah, standing, or sitting, or on 
your sides. And when you feel secure, per-
form the prayer. The prayer is obligatory for 
believers at specific times.  
104. And do not falter in the pursuit of the en-
emy. If you are aching, they are a ching as you 
are aching, but you expect from Allah what 
they cannot expect. Allah is Knowledgeable 
and Wise.  
105. We have revealed to you the Scripture, 
with the truth, so that you judge between people in accordance with what Allah has 
shown you. And do no t be an advocate for the 
traitors.  
106. And ask Allah for forgiveness. Allah is 
Forgiver and Merciful.  
107. And do not argue on behalf of those who 
deceive themselves. Allah does not love the 
deceitful sinner.  
108. They hide from the people, but they can-
not hide from Allah. He is with them, as they 
plot by night with words He does not ap-
prove. Allah comprehends what they do.  
109. There you are, arguing on their behalf in 
the present life, but who will argue with Allah 
on their behalf on the Day of Resu rrection? 
Or who will be their representative?  
110. Whoever commits evil, or wrongs his soul, 
then implores Allah for forgiveness, will find 
Allah Forgiving and Merciful.  
111. And Whoever earns a sin, earns it against 
himself. Allah is Aware and Wise.  
112. And whoever commits a mistake, or a sin, 
and then blames it on an innocent person, has taken a slander and a clear sin.  
113. Were it not for Allah’s grace towards you, 
and His mercy, a faction of them would have managed to mislead you. But they only m is-
lead themselves, and they cannot harm you in 
33 
