## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
81. They profess obedience, but when they 
leave your presence, some of them conspire 
something contrary to what you said. But Al-
lah writes down what they conspire. So avoid 
them, and put your trust in Allah. Allah is 
Guardian enough.  
82. Do they not ponder the Quran? Had it 
been from any other than Allah, they would 
have found in it much discrepancy.  
83. When some news of security or alarm 
comes their way, they broadcast it. But had 
they referred it to the Messenger, and to those in authority among them, those who can 
draw conclusions from it would have com-
prehended it. Were it not for Allah’s blessing 
and mercy upon you, you would have fol-
lowed the Devil, except for a few.  
84. So fight in the cause of Allah; you are re-
sponsible only for yourself. And rouse the be-
lievers. Perhaps Allah will restrain the might 
of those who disbelieve. Allah is Stronger in 
Might, and More Punishing.  
85. Whoever intercedes for a good cause has a 
share in it, and whoever inte rcedes for an evil 
cause shares in its burdens. Allah keeps watch over everything.  
86. When you are greeted with a greeting, re-
spond with a better greeting, or return it. Al-
lah keeps count of everything.  
87. Allah —there is no god except He. He will 
gather you to the Day of Resurrection, in 
which there is no doubt. And who speaks 
more truly than Allah?  
88. What is the matter with you, divided into 
two factions regarding the hypocrites, when 
Allah Himself has overwhelmed them on ac-
count of what they did? Do y ou want to guide 
those whom Allah has led astray? Whomever 
Allah leads astray —you will never find for 
him a way.  
89. They would love to see you disbelieve, just 
as they disbelieve, so you would become 
equal. So do not befriend any of them, unless 
they emig rate in the way of Allah. If they turn 
away, seize them and execute them wherever you may find them; and do not take from 
among them allies or supporters.  
90. Except those who join people with whom 
you have a treaty, or those who come to you 
reluctant to f ight you or fight their own peo-
ple. Had Allah willed, He would have given 
them power over you, and they would have 
fought you. If they withdraw from you, and do not fight you, and offer you peace, then 
Allah assigns no excuse for you against them.  
91. You will find others who want security 
from you, and security from their own peo-ple. But whenever they are tempted into civil 
discord, they plunge into it. So if they do not 
withdraw from you, nor offer you peace, nor 
restrain their hands, seize them and execu te 
them wherever you find them. Against these, 
We have given you clear authorization.  
92. Never should a believer kill another be-
liever, unless by error. Anyone who kills a be-
liever by error must set free a believing slave, 
and pay compensation to the vict im’s family, 
unless they remit it as charity. If the victim 
belonged to a people who are hostile to you, 
but is a believer, then the compensation is to 
free a believing slave. If he belonged to a peo-
ple with whom you have a treaty, then com-
pensation should  be handed over to his fam-
ily, and a believing slave set free. Anyone who 
lacks the means must fast for two consecutive 
months, by way of repentance to Allah. Allah 
is All -Knowing, Most Wise.  
93. Whoever kills a believer deliberately, the 
penalty for him i s Hell, where he will remain 
forever. And Allah will be angry with him, 
and will curse him, and will prepare for him 
a terrible punishment.  
94. O you who believe! When you journey in 
the way of Allah, investigate, and do not say to him who offers you peac e, “You are not a 
believer,” aspiring for the goods of this world. With Allah are abundant riches. You your-
selves were like this before, and Allah be-
stowed favor on you; so investigate. Allah is 
well aware of what you do.  
32 
