## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
any way. Allah has revealed to you the Scrip-
ture and wisdom, and has taught you what 
you did not know. Allah’s goodness towards 
you is great.  
114. There is no good in much of their private 
counsels, except for  him who advocates char-
ity, or kindness, or reconciliation between 
people. Whoever does that, seeking Allah’s 
approval, We will give him a great compen-
sation.  
115. Whoever makes a breach with the Messen-
ger, after the guidance has become clear to 
him, and f ollows other than the path of the 
believers, We will direct him in the direction 
he has chosen, and commit him to Hell —
what a terrible destination!  
116.  Allah will not forgive that partners be as-
sociated with Him; but will forgive anything less than that,  to whomever He wills. Anyone 
who ascribes partners to Allah has strayed 
into far error.  
117. They invoke in His stead only females. In 
fact, they invoke none but a rebellious devil.  
118. Allah has cursed him. And he said, “I will 
take to myself my due share of Your serv-ants.”  
119. “And I will mislead them, and I will entice 
them, and I will prompt them to slit the ears 
of cattle, and I will prompt them to alter the 
creation of Allah.” Whoever takes Satan as a 
lord, instead of Allah, has surely suffered a 
profound loss.  
120. He promises them, and he raises their ex-
pectations, but Satan promises them nothing 
but delusions.  
121. These —their place is Hell, and they will 
find no escape from it.  
122. But as for those who believe and do right-
eous deeds, We will ad mit them into gardens 
beneath which rivers flow, where they will 
abide forever. The promise of Allah is true —
and who is more truthful in speech than Al-
lah? 123. It is not in accordance with your wishes, 
nor in accordance with the wishes of the Peo-
ple of th e Scripture. Whoever works evil will 
pay for it, and will not find for himself, be-
sides Allah, any protector or savior.  
124. But whoever works righteousness, 
whether male or female, and is a believer —
those will enter Paradise, and will not be 
wronged a whi t. 
125. And who is better in religion than he who 
submits himself wholly to Allah, and is a doer 
of good, and follows the faith of Abraham the Monotheist? Allah has chosen Abraham for a 
friend.  
126. To Allah belongs what is in the heavens 
and what is on earth, and Allah encompasses 
everything.  
127. They ask you for a ruling about women. 
Say, “Allah gives you a ruling about them, 
and so does what is stated to you in the Book about widowed women from whom you 
withhold what is decreed for them, yet you 
desire to marry them, and about helpless chil-
dren: that you should treat the orphans 
fairly.” Whatever good you do, Allah knows 
it. 
128. If a woman fears maltreatment or deser-
tion from her husband, there is no fault in 
them if they reconcile their differences, fo r 
reconciliation is best. Souls are prone to ava-
rice; yet if you do what is good, and practice 
piety —Allah is Cognizant of what you do.  
129. You will not be able to treat women with 
equal fairness, no matter how much you de-
sire it. But do not be so biased as to leave an-
other suspended. If you make amends, and 
act righteously —Allah is Forgiving and Mer-
ciful.  
130. And if they separate, Allah will enrich each 
from His abundance. Allah is Bounteous and 
Wise.  
131. To Allah belongs everything in the heav-
ens and e verything on earth. We have in-
structed those who were given the Book be-
fore you, and you, to be conscious of Allah. 
34 
