## 5.  THE TABLE   (al-Ma’idah)  
vain, and in the Hereafter he will be among 
the losers.  
6. O you who believe! When you rise to pray, 
wash your faces and your hands and arms to 
the elbows, and wipe your heads, and your 
feet to the ankles. If you had intercourse, then 
purif y yourselves. If you are ill, or travelling, 
or one of you returns from the toilet, or you 
had contact with women, and could not find 
water, then use some clean sand and wipe 
your faces and hands with it. Allah does not 
intend to burden you, but He intends  to pu-
rify you, and to complete His blessing upon 
you, that you may be thankful.  
7. And Remember Allah’s blessings upon you, 
and His covenant which He covenanted with 
you; when you said, “We hear and we obey.” 
And remain conscious of Allah, for Allah 
knows  what the hearts contain.  
8. O you who believe! Be upright to Allah, wit-
nessing with justice; and let not the hatred of 
a certain people prevent you from acting justly. Adhere to justice, for that is nearer to 
piety; and fear Allah. Allah is informed of 
what you do.  
9. Allah has promised those who believe and 
work righteousness: they will have for-
giveness and a great reward.  
10. As for those who disbelieve and reject Our 
revelations —these are the inmates of Hell.  
11. O you who believe! Remember Allah's 
blessings upon you; when certain people in-
tended to extend their hands against you, and 
He restrained their hands from you. So rev-
erence Allah, and in Allah let the believers 
put their trust.  
12. Allah received a pledge from the Children 
of Israel, and We raised among them twelve 
chiefs. Allah said, “I am with you; if you per-
form the prayer, and pay the alms, and be-
lieve in My messengers and support them, 
and lend Allah a loan of righteousness; I will 
remit your sins, and admit you into Gardens 
beneath whic h rivers flow. But whoever 
among you disbelieves afterwards has strayed 
from the right way.”  13. Because of their breaking their pledge, We 
cursed them, and made their hearts hard. 
They twist the words out of their context, and 
they disregarded some of wha t they were re-
minded of. You will always witness deceit 
from them, except for a few of them. But par-
don them, and overlook. Allah loves the do-
ers of good.  
14. And from those who say, “We are Chris-
tians,” We received their pledge, but they ne-
glected some of  what they were reminded of. 
So We provoked enmity and hatred among 
them until the Day of Resurrection; Allah will 
then inform them of what they used to craft.  
15. O People of the Book! Our Messenger has 
come to you, clarifying for you much of what 
you kep t hidden of the Book, and overlook-
ing much. A light from Allah has come to 
you, and a clear Book.  
16. Allah guides with it whoever follows His 
approval to the ways of peace, and He brings 
them out of darkness into light, by His per-mission, and He guides th em in a straight 
path.  
17. They disbelieve those who say, “Allah is the 
Christ, the son of Mary.” Say, “Who can pre-
vent Allah, if He willed, from annihilating the 
Christ son of Mary, and his mother, and eve-
ryone on earth?” To Allah belongs the sover-
eignty of the heavens and the earth and what 
is between them. He creates whatever He 
wills, and Allah has power over everything.  
18. The Jews and the Christians say, “We are 
the children of Allah, and His beloved.” Say, 
“Why then does He punish you for your 
sins? ” In fact, you are humans from among 
those He created. He forgives whom He wills, 
and He punishes whom He wills. To Allah 
belongs the dominion of the heavens and the 
earth and what lies between them, and to Him is the return.  
19. O People of the Book! Our Messenger has 
come to you, making things clear to you —af-
ter a cessation of messengers —so that you 
cannot say, “No preacher has come to us, and 
no warner.” In fact, a preacher has come to 
38 
