## 5.  THE TABLE   (al-Ma’idah)  
you, and a warner; and Allah is Capable of 
everything.  
20. When Moses  said to his people, “O my 
people, remember Allah’s blessings upon 
you, when He placed prophets among you, 
and made you kings, and gave you what He 
never gave any other people.”  
21. “O my people, enter the Holy Land which 
Allah has assigned for you, and do  not turn 
back, lest you return as losers.”  
22. They said, “O Moses, there are tyrannical 
people in it; we will not enter it until they 
leave it. If they leave it, we will be entering.”  
23. Two men of those who feared, but whom 
Allah had blessed, said, “Go  at them by the 
gate; and when you have entered it, you will 
prevail. And put your trust in Allah, if you are 
believers.”  
24. They said, “O Moses, we will not enter it, 
ever, as long as they are in it. So go ahead, you 
and your Lord, and fight. We are stay ing right 
here.”  
25. He said, “My Lord! I have control only over 
myself and my brother, so separate between 
us and between the wicked people.”  
26. He said, “It is forbidden for them for forty 
years. They will wander aimlessly in the land. 
So do not grieve over the defiant people.”  
27. And relate to them the true story of Adam's 
two sons: when they offered an offering, and it was accepted from one of them, but it was 
not accepted from the other. He Said, “I will 
kill you.” He Said, “Allah accepts only from 
the righteous.”  
28. “If you extend your hand to kill me, I will 
not extend my hand to kill you; for I fear Al-lah, Lord of the Worlds.”  
29. “I would rather you bear my sin and your 
sin, and you become among the inmates of 
the Fire. Such is the reward for the  evildoers.”  
30. Then His soul prompted him to kill his 
brother, so he killed him, and became one of 
the losers.  31. Then Allah sent a raven digging the 
ground, to show him how to cover his broth-
er's corpse. He said, “Woe to me! I was unable 
to be like thi s raven, and bury my brother's 
corpse.” So he became full of regrets.  
32. Because of that We ordained for the Chil-
dren of Israel: that whoever kills a person—
unless it is for murder or corruption on 
earth —it is as if he killed the whole of man-
kind; and who ever saves it, it is as if he saved 
the whole of mankind. Our messengers came 
to them with clarifications, but even after 
that, many of them continue to commit ex-
cesses in the land.  
33. The punishment for those who fight Allah 
and His Messenger, and strive  to spread cor-
ruption on earth, is that they be killed, or cru-
cified, or have their hands and feet cut off on 
opposite sides, or be banished from the land. 
That is to disgrace them in this life; and in the 
Hereafter they will have a terrible punish-
ment.  
34. Except for those who repent before you ap-
prehend them. So know that Allah is Forgiv-ing and Merciful.  
35. O you who believe! Be conscious of Allah, 
and seek the means of approach to Him, and 
strive in His cause, so that you may succeed.  
36.  As for those who disbelieve, even if they 
owned everything on earth, and the like of it with it, and they offered it to ransom them-
selves from the torment of the Day of Resur-
rection, it will not be accepted from them. 
For them is a painful punishment.  
37. They will want to leave the Fire, but they 
will not leave it. For them is a lasting punish-ment.  
38. As for the thief, whether male or female, 
cut their hands as a penalty for what they 
have reaped —a deterrent from Allah. Allah is 
Mighty and Wise.  
39. But whoever rep ents after his crime, and 
reforms, Allah will accept his repentance. Al-
lah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
40. Do you not know that to Allah belongs the 
kingdom of the heavens and the earth? He 
39 
