## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
43. O you who believe! Do not approach the 
prayer while yo u are drunk, so that you know 
what you say; nor after sexual orgasm —un-
less you are travelling —until you have 
bathed. If you are sick, or traveling, or one of 
you comes from the toilet, or you have had 
intercourse with women, and cannot find 
water, find cle an sand and wipe your faces 
and your hands with it. Allah is Pardoning 
and Forgiving.  
44. Have you not considered those who were 
given a share of the Book? They buy error, 
and wish you would lose the way.  
45. But Allah knows your enemies best. Allah 
is suf ficient as a Protector, and Allah is suffi-
cient as a Supporter.  
46. Among the Jews are some who take words 
out of context, and say, “We hear and we dis-
obey”, and “Hear without listening”, and “Observe us,” twisting with their tongues and 
slandering the rel igion. Had they said, “We 
hear and we obey”, and “Listen”, and “Give 
us your attention,” it would have been better 
for them, and more upright. But Allah has 
cursed them for their disbelief; they do not 
believe except a little.  
47. O you who were given the Book! Believe in 
what We sent down, confirming what you 
have, before We obliterate faces and turn them inside out, or curse them as We cursed 
the Sabbath- breakers. The command of Allah 
is always done.  
48. Allah does not forgive association with 
Him, but He  forgives anything less than that 
to whomever He wills. Whoever associates 
anything with Allah has devised a monstrous 
sin. 
49. Have you not considered those who claim 
purity for themselves? Rather, Allah purifies 
whom He wills, and they will not be wronge d 
a whit.  
50. See how they devise lies against Allah. That 
alone is an outright sin.  
51. Have you not considered those who were 
given a share of the Book? They believe in su-
perstition and evil powers, and say of those who disbelieve, “These are better guided on 
the way than the believers.”  
52. Those are they whom Allah has cursed. 
Whomever Allah curses, you will find no sav-
ior for him.  
53. Or do they own a share of the kingdom? 
Then they would not give people a speck.  
54. Or do they envy the people for what Allah 
has given them of His grace? We have given 
the family of Abraham the Book and wisdom, 
and We have given them a great kingdom.  
55. Among them are those who believed in it, 
and among them are those who held back from it. Hell is a sufficient Infer no. 
56. Those who reject Our revelations —We will 
scorch them in a Fire. Every time their skins 
are cooked, We will replace them with other 
skins, so they will experience the suffering. 
Allah is Most Powerful, Most Wise.  
57. As for those who believe and do good 
deeds, We will admit them into Gardens be-
neath which rivers flow, abiding therein for-ever. They will have purified spouses therein, 
and We will admit them into a shady shade.  
58. Allah instructs you to give back things en-
trusted to you to their owners . And when you 
judge between people, judge with justice. Al-
lah’s instructions to you are excellent. Allah 
is All -Hearing, All -Seeing.  
59. O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey 
the Messenger and those in authority among 
you. And if you dispute over anythin g, refer 
it to Allah and the Messenger, if you believe 
in Allah and the Last Day. That is best, and a 
most excellent determination.  
60. Have you not observed those who claim 
that they believe in what was revealed to you, 
and in what was revealed before you , yet they 
seek Satanic sources for legislation, in spite of being commanded to reject them? Satan 
means to mislead them far away.  
61. And when it is said to them, “Come to what 
Allah has revealed, and to the Messenger,” 
you see the hypocrites shunning you  com-
pletely.  
30 
