## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
62. How about when a disaster strikes them 
because what their hands have put forward, 
and then they come to you swearing by Allah: 
“We only intended goodwill and reconcilia-
tion”?  
63. They are those whom Allah knows what is 
in their hearts. So ignore them, and admon-
ish them, and say to them concerning them-
selves penetrating words.  
64. We did not send any messenger except to 
be obeyed by Allah’s leave. Had they, when 
they wronged themselves, come to you, and prayed for Allah's forgiveness, and the Mes-
senger had prayed for their forgiveness, they 
would have found Allah Relenting and Mer-
ciful.  
65. But no, by your Lord, they will not believe 
until they call you to arbitrate in their dis-
putes, and then find within themselves no re-sentment regarding your decisions, and sub-
mit themselves completely.  
66. Had We decreed for them: “Kill your-
selves,” or “Leave your homes,” they would not have done it, except for a few of them. But 
had they done what they were instructed to 
do, it would have been better for  them, and a 
firmer confirmation.  
67. And We would have given them from Our 
presence a rich compensation.  
68. And We would have guided them on a 
straight path.  
69. Whoever obeys Allah and the Messenger —
these are with those whom Allah has 
blessed —among the prophets, and the sin-
cere, and the martyrs, and the upright. Excel-
lent are those as companions.  
70. That is the grace from Allah. Allah suffices 
as Knower.  
71. O you who believe! Take your precautions, 
and mobilize in groups, or mobilize alto-gether.  
72. Among you is he who lags behind. Then, 
when a calamity befalls you, he says, “Allah 
has favored me, that I was not martyred with 
them.”  73. But when some bounty from Allah comes 
to you, he says —as if no affection existed be-
tween you and him —“If only I had be en with 
them, I would have achieved a great victory.”  
74. Let those who sell the life of this world for 
the Hereafter fight in the cause of Allah. 
Whoever fights in the cause of Allah, and 
then is killed, or achieves victory, We will 
grant him a great comp ensation.  
75. And why would you not fight in the cause 
of Allah, and the helpless men, and women, 
and children, cry out, “Our Lord, deliver us from this town whose people are oppressive, 
and appoint for us from Your Presence a Pro-
tector, and appoint for us  from Your Pres-
ence a Victor.”  
76. Those who believe fight in the cause of Al-
lah, while those who disbelieve fight in the cause of Evil. So fight the allies of the Devil. 
Surely the strategy of the Devil is weak.  
77. Have you not considered those who were 
told, “Restrain your hands, and perform your 
prayers, and spend in regular charity”? But when fighting was ordained for them, a fac-
tion of them feared the people as Allah is 
ought to be feared, or even more. And they 
said, “Our Lord, why did You ordain fighting 
for us? If only You would postpone it for us 
for a short while.” Say, “The enjoyments of 
this life are brief, but the Hereafter is better 
for the righteous, and you will not be 
wronged one bit.”  
78. Wherever you may be, death will catch up 
with you, even if you were in fortified towers. 
When a good fortune comes their way, they 
say, “This is from Allah.” But when a misfor-
tune befalls them, they say, “This is from 
you.” Say, “All is from Allah.” So what is the 
matter with these people, that they hardly  un-
derstand a thing?  
79. Whatever good happens to you is from Al-
lah, and whatever bad happens to you is from 
your own self. We sent you to humanity as a 
messenger, and Allah is Witness enough.  
80. Whoever obeys the Messenger is obeying 
Allah. And whoever turns away —We did not 
send you as a watcher over them.  
31 
