## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
152. As for those who believe in Allah and His 
messengers, and make no distinction be-
tween any of them —He will give them their 
rewards. Allah is Forgiver and Merciful.  
153. The People of the Scripture challenge you 
to bring down to them a book from the sky. They had asked Moses for something even 
greater. They said, “Show us Allah plainly.” 
The thunderbolt struck them for their wick-
edness. Then they took the calf for worship, even after the clear proofs had come to them. 
Yet We pardoned that, and We gave Moses a 
clear authority.  
154. And We raised the Mount above them in 
accordance with their covenant, and We said to them, “Enter the gate humbly”, and We 
said to them, “Do not violate the Sabbath”, 
and We received from them a solemn pledge.  
155. But for their violation of their covenant, 
and their denial of Allah’s revelations, and 
their killing  of the prophets unjustly, and 
their saying, “Our minds are closed.” In fact, 
Allah has sealed them for their disbelief, so 
they do not believe, except for a few.  
156. And for their faithlessness, and their say-
ing against Mary a monstrous slander.  
157. And  for their saying, “We have killed the 
Messiah, Jesus, the son of Mary, the Messen-
ger of Allah.” In fact, they did not kill him, 
nor did they crucify him, but it appeared to 
them as if they did. Indeed, those who differ 
about him are in doubt about it. The y have 
no knowledge of it, except the following of as-
sumptions. Certainly, they did not kill him.  
158. Rather, Allah raised him up to Himself. 
Allah is Mighty and Wise.  
159. There is none from the People of the 
Scripture but will believe in him before his 
death, and on the Day of Resurrection he will 
be a witness against them.  
160. Due to wrongdoing on the part of the 
Jews, We forbade them good things that used 
to be lawful for them; and for deterring many 
from Allah’s path.  
161. And for their taking usury,  although they 
were forbidden it; and for their consuming people's wealth dishonestly. We have pre-
pared for the faithless among them a painful 
torment.  
162. But those among them firmly rooted in 
knowledge, and the believers, believe in what 
was revealed to  you, and in what was revealed 
before you; and the observers of prayers, and 
the givers of charity, and the believers in Al-
lah and the Last Day —upon these We will be-
stow an immense reward.  
163. We have inspired you, as We had inspired 
Noah and the prophets after him. And We in-spired Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and 
Jacob, and the Patriarchs, and Jesus, and Job, 
and Jonah, and Aaron, and Solomon. And 
We gave David the Psalms.  
164. Some messeng ers We have already told 
you about, while some messengers We have 
not told you about. And Allah spoke to Mo-
ses directly.  
165. Messengers delivering good news, and 
bringing warnings; so that people may have 
no excuse before Allah after the coming of 
the mes sengers. Allah is Powerful and Wise.  
166. But Allah bears witness to what He re-
vealed to you. He revealed it with His 
knowledge. And the angels bear witness. 
Though Allah is a sufficient witness.  
167. Those who disbelieve and repel from Al-
lah’s path have g one far astray.  
168.  Those who disbelieve and transgress; Al-
lah is not about to forgive them, nor will He 
guide them to any path.  
169. Except to the path of Hell, where they will 
dwell forever. And that is easy for Allah.  
170. O people! The Messenger has come to you 
with the truth from your Lord, so believe —
that is best for you. But if you disbelieve, to 
Allah belongs everything in the heavens and 
the earth. Allah is Omniscient and Wise.  
171. O People of the Scripture! Do not exagger-
ate in your religion, a nd do not say about Al-
lah except the truth. The Messiah, Jesus, the 
son of Mary, is the Messenger of Allah, and 
His Word that He conveyed to Mary, and a 
36 
