## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
deny it; and do not exchange My revelations 
for a small price; and be conscious of Me.  
42. And do not mix truth with falsehood, and 
do not conceal the truth while you know.  
43. And attend to your prayers, and practice 
regular charity, and kneel with those who 
kneel.  
44. Do you command people to virtuous con-
duct, and forget yourselves, even though you read the Scripture? Do you not under stand? 
45. And seek help through patience and 
prayer. But it is difficult, except for the de-
vout.  
46. Those who know that they will meet their 
Lord, and that to Him they will return.  
47. O Children of Israel! Remember My favor 
which I bestowed upon you, and I that fa-
vored you over all nations.  
48. And beware of a Day when no soul will 
avail another in the least, nor will any inter-cession be accepted on its behalf, nor will any 
ransom be taken from it, nor will they be 
helped.  
49. And recall that We delive red you from the 
people of Pharaoh. They inflicted on you ter-
rible persecution, killing your sons and spar-
ing your women. Therein was a tremendous 
trial from your Lord.  
50. And recall that We parted the sea for you, 
so We saved you, and We drowned the peo-ple of Pharaoh as you looked on.  
51. And recall that We appointed for Moses 
forty nights. Then you took to worshiping the 
calf after him, and you turned wicked.  
52. Then We pardoned you after that, so that 
you might be grateful.  
53. And recall that We gave Moses the Scrip-
ture and the Criterion, so that you may be guided.  
54. And recall that Moses said to his people, “O 
my people, you have done wrong to your-selves by worshiping the calf. So repent to 
your Maker, and kill your egos. That would 
be better for yo u with your Maker.” So He turned to you in repentance. He is the Ac-
cepter of Repentance, the Merciful.  
55. And recall that you said, “O Moses, we will 
not believe in you unless we see Allah 
plainly.” Thereupon the thunderbolt struck 
you, as you looked on.  
56. Then We revived you after your death, so 
that you may be appreciative.  
57. And We shaded you with clouds, and We 
sent down to you manna and quails: “Eat of 
the good things We have provided for you.” 
They did not wrong Us, but they used to 
wrong their own souls.  
58. And recall that We said, “Enter this town, 
and eat plentifully from it whatever you wish; 
but enter the gate humbly, and say, 'Pardon.' 
We will forgive your sins, and give increase to 
the virtuous.”  
59. But the wrongdoers among them substi-
tuted words other than those given to them, 
so We sent down on the wrongdoers a plague 
from heaven, because of their wicked behav-
ior. 
60. And recall when Moses prayed for water 
for his people. We said, “Strike the rock with 
your staff.” Thereupon twelve sprin gs gushed 
out from it, and each tribe recognized its 
drinking -place. “Eat and drink from Allah’s 
provision, and do not corrupt the earth with disobedience.”  
61. And recall when you said, “O Moses, we 
cannot endure one kind of food, so call to 
your Lord to produce for us of what the earth 
grows: of its herbs, and its cucumbers, and its garlic, and its lentils, and its onions.” He said, 
“Would you substitute worse for better? Go 
down to Egypt, where you will have what you 
asked for.” They were struck with hum ilia-
tion and poverty, and incurred wrath from 
Allah. That was because they rejected Allah’s 
revelations and wrongfully killed the proph-
ets. That was because they disobeyed and 
transgressed.  
62. Those who believe, and those who are Jew-
ish, and the Christian s, and the Sabeans —any 
who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and 
3 
