## 4.  WOMEN   (an-Nisa’)  
But if you refuse —to Allah belongs every-
thing in the heavens and everything on earth. 
Allah is in no need, Praiseworthy.  
132. To Allah belon gs everything in the heav-
ens and everything on earth. Allah suffices as 
Manager.  
133. If He wills, He can do away with you, O 
people, and bring others. Allah is Able to do 
that.  
134. Whoever desires the reward of this 
world —with Allah is the reward of this  world 
and the next. Allah is All -Hearing, All -See-
ing. 
135. O you who believe! Stand firmly for jus-
tice, as witnesses to Allah, even if against 
yourselves, or your parents, or your relatives. 
Whether one is rich or poor, Allah takes care 
of both. So do not follow your desires, lest 
you swerve. If you deviate, or turn away —
then Allah is Aware of what you do.  
136. O you who believe! Believe in Allah and 
His messenger, and the Book He sent down 
to His messenger, and the Book He sent 
down before. Whoever reject s Allah, His an-
gels, His Books, His messengers, and the Last Day, has strayed far in error.  
137. Those who believe, then disbelieve, then 
believe, then disbelieve, then increase in dis-belief, Allah will not forgive them, nor will He 
guide them to a way.  
138. Inform the hypocrites that they will have a 
painful punishment.  
139. Those who ally themselves with the disbe-
lievers instead of the believers. Do they seek glory in them? All glory belongs to Allah.  
140. He has revealed to you in the Book that 
when you hear Allah’s revelations being re-
jected, or ridiculed, do not sit with them until 
they engage in some other subject. Other-
wise, you would be like them. Allah will 
gather the hypocrites and the disbelievers, into Hell, altogether.  
141. Those who lie in wait for you: if you attain 
victory from Allah, they say, “Were we not 
with you?” But if the disbelievers get a turn, they say, “Did we not side with you, and de-
fend you from the believers?” Allah will judge 
between you on the Day of Resurrection; and 
Allah wi ll give the disbelievers no means of 
overcoming the believers.  
142. The hypocrites try to deceive Allah, but He 
is deceiving them. And when they stand for 
prayer, they stand lazily, showing off in front 
of people, and remembering Allah only a lit-tle. 
143. Wavering in between, neither with these, 
nor with those. Whomever Allah sends 
astray, you will never find for him a way.  
144. O you who believe! Do not befriend disbe-
lievers rather than believers. Do you want to give Allah a clear case against you?  
145. The hypocrites will be in the lowest level 
of the Fire, and you will find no helper for 
them.  
146. Except those who repent, and reform, and 
hold fast to Allah, and dedicate their religion to Allah alone. These are with the believers; 
and Allah will give the believers a great re-
ward.  
147. What would Allah accomplish by your 
punishment, if you have given thanks, and 
have believed? Allah is Appreciative and 
Cognizant.  
148. Allah does not like the public uttering of 
bad language, unless someone was wronged. 
Allah  is Hearing and Knowing.  
149. If you let a good deed be shown, or conceal 
it, or pardon an offense —Allah is Pardoning 
and Capable.  
150. Those who disbelieve in Allah and His 
messengers, and want to separate between 
Allah and His messengers, and say, “We be-lieve in some, and reject some,” and wish to 
take a path in between.  
151. These are the unbelievers, truly. We have 
prepared for the unbelievers a shameful pun-
ishment.  
35 
