## 5.  THE TABLE   (al-Ma’idah)  
71. They assumed there would be no punish-
ment, so they turned blind and deaf. Then Al-
lah redeemed them, but then again many of 
them turned blind and deaf. But Allah is See-
ing of what they do.  
72. They disbelieve those who say, “ Allah is the 
Messiah the son of Mary.” But the Messiah 
himself said, “O Children of Israel, worship 
Allah, my Lord and your Lord. Whoever as-
sociates others with Allah, Allah has forbid-
den him Paradise, and his dwelling is the Fire. 
The wrongdoers have no s aviors.”  
73. They disbelieve those who say, “Allah is the 
third of three.” But there is no deity except 
the One God. If they do not refrain from what they say, a painful torment will befall those 
among them who disbelieve.  
74. Will they not repent to Allah and ask His 
forgiveness? Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
75. The Messiah son of Mary was only a mes-
senger, before whom other Messengers had 
passed away, and his mother was a woman of 
truth. They both used to eat food. Note how 
We make clear the revelatio ns to them; then 
note how deluded they are.  
76. Say, “Do you worship, besides Allah, what 
has no power to harm or benefit you?” But 
Allah: He is the Hearer, the Knower.  
77. Say, “O People of the Scripture! Do not ex-
aggerate in your religion beyond the trut h; 
and do not follow the opinions of people who 
went astray before, and misled many, and 
themselves strayed off the balanced way.”  
78. Cursed were those who disbelieved from 
among the Children of Israel by the tongue of David and Jesus son of Mary. That is  because 
they rebelled and used to transgress.  
79. They used not to prevent one another from 
the wrongs they used to commit. Evil is what 
they used to do.  
80. You will see many of them befriending 
those who disbelieve. Terrible is what their 
souls prompts them to do. The wrath of Allah 
fell upon them, and in the torment they will 
remain.  81. Had they believed in Allah and the 
Prophet, and in what was revealed to him, 
they would not have befriended them. But 
many of them are immoral.  
82. You will find that t he people most hostile 
towards the believers are the Jews and the 
polytheists. And you will find that the nearest 
in affection towards the believers are those 
who say, “We are Christians.” That is because 
among them are priests and monks, and they 
are not arrogant.  
83. And when they hear what was revealed to 
the Messenger, you see their eyes overflowing 
with tears, as they recognize the truth in it. 
They say, “Our Lord, we have believed, so 
count us among the witnesses.”  
84. “And why should we not believe i n Allah, 
and in the truth that has come to us, and hope 
that our Lord will include us among the 
righteous people?”  
85. Allah will reward them for what they say —
Gardens beneath which rivers flow, where 
they will stay forever. Such is the reward of 
the right eous.  
86. But as for those who disbelieve and deny 
Our signs —these are the inmates of the Fire.  
87. O you who believe! Do not prohibit the 
good things Allah has permitted for you, and 
do not commit aggression. Allah does not 
love the aggressors.  
88. And ea t of the lawful and good things Allah 
has provided for you; and be conscious of Al-
lah, in whom you are believers.  
89. Allah does not hold you accountable for 
your unintended oaths, but He holds you ac-
countable for your binding oaths. The atone-ment for it i s by feeding ten needy people 
from the average of what you feed your fam-ilies, or by clothing them, or by freeing a 
slave. Anyone who lacks the means shall fast 
for three days. That is the atonement for 
breaking your oaths when you have sworn 
them. So keep  your oaths. Thus Allah makes 
clear His Revelations to you, that you may be 
grateful.  
42 
