## 5.  THE TABLE   (al-Ma’idah)  
54. O you who believe! Whoever of you goes 
back on his religion— Allah will bring a peo-
ple whom He loves and who love Him, kind 
towards the believers, stern with the disbe-
lievers. They strive in the way of Allah, and 
do not fear the blame of the critic. That is the 
grace of Allah; He bestows it upon whomever 
He wills. Allah is Embracing and Knowing.  
55. Your allies are Allah, and His Messenger, 
and those who believe —those who pray reg-
ularly, and give charity, and bow down.  
56. Whoever allies himself with Allah, and His 
Messenger, and those who believe —surely 
the Party of Allah is the victorious.  
57. O you who believe! Do not befriend those 
who take your religion in mockery and as a 
sport, be they from among those who were 
given the Scripture before you, or the disbe-
lievers. And obey Allah, if you are believers.  
58. When you call to the prayer,  they take it as 
a joke and a trifle. That is because they are 
people who do not reason.  
59. Say, “O People of the Scripture! Do you re-
sent us only because we believe in Allah, and in what was revealed to us, and in what was 
revealed previously; and most of you are sin-
ners?”  
60. Say, “Shall I inform you of worse than that 
for retribution from Allah? He whom Allah 
has cursed, and with whom He became an-
gry; and He turned some of them into apes, 
and swine, and idol worshipers. These are in 
a worse position, a nd further away from the 
right way.”  
61. When they come to you, they say, “We be-
lieve,” though they have entered with disbe-
lief, and they have departed with it. But Allah 
is well aware of what they hide.  
62. You see many of them competing with one 
another in sin and hostility, and their con-
suming of what is illicit. What they have been doing is truly evil.  
63. Why do the rabbis and the priests not pre-
vent them from speaking sinfully and from 
consuming forbidden wealth? Evil is what 
they have been doing.  64. The Jews say, “Allah’s hand is tied.” It is 
their hands that are tied, and they are cursed 
for what they say. In fact, His hands are out-
stretched; He gives as He wills. Certainly, 
what was revealed to your from your Lord 
will increase many of them in defiance and 
blasphemy. And We placed between them 
enmity and hatred, until the Day of Resurrec-
tion. Whenever they kindle the fire of war, 
Allah extinguishes it. And they strive to spread corruption on earth. Allah does not 
love the corrupters.  
65. Had the People of the Scriputure believed 
and been righteous, We would have remitted their sins, and admitted them into the Gar-
dens of Bliss.  
66. Had they observed the Torah, and the Gos-
pel, and what was revealed to them from their 
Lord, they would have consumed a mply from 
above them, and from beneath their feet. 
Among them is a moderate community, but 
evil is what many of them are doing.  
67. O Messenger, convey what was revealed to 
you from your Lord. But if you do not, then 
you would not have delivered His messa ge. 
And Allah will protect you from the people. 
Allah does not guide the disbelieving people.  
68. Say, “O People of the Scripture! You have 
no basis until you uphold the Torah, and the 
Gospel, and what is revealed to you from 
your Lord.” But what is reveal ed to you from 
your Lord will increase many of them in re-
bellion and disbelief, so do not be sorry for 
the disbelieving people.  
69. Those who believe, and the Jews, and the 
Sabians, and the Christians —whoever be-
lieves in Allah and the Last Day, and does 
what is right— they have nothing to fear, nor 
shall they grieve.  
70. We made a covenant with the Children of 
Israel, and We sent to them messengers. 
Whenever a messenger came to them with 
what their souls did not desire, some of them 
they accused of lying, and others they put to 
death.  
41 
