## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
act righteously —will have their reward with 
their Lord; they have nothing to fear, nor will 
they grieve.  
63. And recall when We received a pledge 
from you, and raised the Mount above you: 
“Take what We have given you earnestly, and 
remember what is in it, that you may attain 
righteousness.”  
64. But after that you turned away. Were it not 
for Allah’s grace and mercy towards you, you 
would have been among the losers.  
65. And you surely knew tho se of you who vi-
olated the Sabbath. We said to them, “Be des-
picable apes!”  
66. Thus We made it a deterrent for their gen-
eration, and for subsequent generations, and a lesson for the righteous.  
67. And recall when Moses said to his people, 
“Allah commands you to sacrifice a heifer.” 
They said, “Do you make a mockery of us?” 
He said, “Allah forbid that I should be so ig-
norant.”  
68. They said, “Call upon your Lord to show us 
which one.” He said, “He says she is a heifer, 
neither too old, nor too young, but in  be-
tween. So do what you are commanded.”  
69. They said, “Call upon your Lord to show us 
what her color is.” He said, “He says she is a yellow heifer, bright in color, pleasing to the 
beholders.”  
70. They said, “Call upon your Lord to show us 
which one; the  heifers look alike to us; and 
Allah willing, we will be guided.” 
71. He said, “He says she is a heifer, neither 
yoked to plow the earth, nor to irrigate the 
field; sound without blemish.” They said, 
“Now you have brought the truth.” So they 
slew her; thou gh they almost did not.  
72. And recall when you killed a person, and 
disputed in the matter; but Allah was to ex-
pose what you were hiding.  
73. We said, “Strike him with part of it.” Thus 
Allah brings the dead to life; and He shows 
you His signs, that you may understand.  74. Then after that your hearts hardened. They 
were as rocks, or even harder. For there are 
some rocks from which rivers gush out, and 
others that splinter and water comes out 
from them, and others that sink in awe of Al-
lah. Allah is not un aware of what you do.  
75. Do you hope that they will believe in you, 
when some of them used to hear the Word of 
Allah, and then deliberately distort it, even 
after understanding it?  
76. And when they come across those who be-
lieve, they say, “We believe,” b ut when they 
come together privately, they say, “Will you 
inform them of what Allah has disclosed to 
you, so that they might dispute with you con-
cerning it before your Lord?” Do you not un-
derstand?  
77. Do they not know that Allah knows what 
they conceal and what they reveal?  
78. And among them are uneducated who 
know the Scripture only through hearsay, 
and they only speculate.  
79. So woe to those who write the Scripture 
with their own hands, and then say, “This is from Allah,” that they may exchange it for a 
little price. Woe to them for what their hands 
have written, and woe to them for what they 
earn.  
80. And they say, “The Fire will not touch us 
except for a number of days.” Say, “Have you 
received a promise from Allah —Allah never 
breaks His promise —or are you saying about 
Allah what you do not know?”  
81. Indeed, whoever commits misdeeds, and 
becomes besieged by his iniquities —these are 
the inmates of the Fire, wherein they will dwell forever.  
82. As for those who believe and do righteous 
deeds —these are the inhabitants of Paradise, 
wherein they will dwell forever.  
83. We made a covenant with the Children of 
Israel: “Worship none but Allah; and be good to parents, and relatives, and orphans, and the needy; and speak nicely to people; and 
pray regularly, a nd give alms.” Then you 
4 
