## 5.  THE TABLE   (al-Ma’idah)  
punishes whom He wills, and He forgives 
whom He wills. And Allah is  Capable of eve-
rything.  
41. O Messenger! Do not let those who are 
quick to disbelief grieve you —from among 
those who say with their mouths, “We be-
lieve,” but their hearts do not believe; and 
from among the Jews —listeners to lies, lis-
teners to other people who did not come to 
you. They distort words from their places, and they say, “If you are given this, accept it; but if you are not given it, beware.” Whom-
ever Allah has willed to divert, you have 
nothing for him from Allah. Those are they 
whose hearts Alla h does not intend to purify. 
For them is disgrace in this world, and for 
them is a great punishment in the Hereafter.  
42. Listeners to falsehoods, eaters of illicit 
earnings. If they come to you, judge between 
them, or turn away from them. If you turn 
away  from them, they will not harm you in 
the least. But if you judge, judge between them equitably. Allah loves the equitable.  
43. But why do they come to you for judgment, 
when they have the Torah, in which is Allah’s 
Law? Yet they turn away after that. Thes e are 
not believers.  
44. We have revealed the Torah, wherein is 
guidance and light. The submissive prophets 
ruled the Jews according to it, so did the rab-
bis and the scholars, as they were required to 
protect Allah’s Book, and were witnesses to it. 
So do n ot fear people, but fear Me. And do 
not sell My revelations for a cheap price. Those who do not rule according to what Al-
lah revealed are the unbelievers.  
45. And We wrote for them in it: a life for a life, 
an eye for an eye, a nose for a nose, an ear for 
an ear, a tooth for a tooth, and an equal wound for a wound; but whoever forgoes it 
in charity, it will serve as atonement for him. 
Those who do not rule according to what Al-
lah revealed are the evildoers.  
46. In their footsteps, We sent Jesus son of 
Mary,  fulfilling the Torah that preceded him; 
and We gave him the Gospel, wherein is guidance and light, and confirming the To-
rah that preceded him, and guidance and 
counsel for the righteous.  
47. So let the people of the Gospel rule accord-
ing to what Allah rev ealed in it. Those who 
do not rule according to what Allah revealed are the sinners.  
48. And We revealed to you the Book, with 
truth, confirming the Scripture that preceded 
it, and superseding it. So judge between them 
according to what Allah revealed, and  do not 
follow their desires if they differ from the 
truth that has come to you. For each of you 
We have assigned a law and a method. Had 
Allah willed, He could have made you a single nation, but He tests you through what He has 
given you. So compete in ri ghteousness. To 
Allah is your return, all of you; then He will 
inform you of what you had disputed.  
49. And judge between them according to 
what Allah revealed, and do not follow their 
desires. And beware of them, lest they lure you away from some of what Allah has re-
vealed to you. But if they turn away, know that Allah intends to strike them with some 
of their sins. In fact, a great many people are 
corrupt.  
50. Is it the laws of the time of ignorance that 
they desire? Who is better than Allah in judg-
ment f or people who are certain?  
51. O you who believe! Do not take the Jews 
and the Christians as allies; some of them are 
allies of one another. Whoever of you allies himself with them is one of them. Allah does 
not guide the wrongdoing people.  
52. You will se e those in whose hearts is sick-
ness racing towards them. They say, “We fear the wheel of fate may turn against us.” But 
perhaps Allah will bring about victory, or 
some event of His making; thereupon they 
will regret what they concealed within them-selves.  
53. Those who believe will say, “Are these the 
ones who swore by Allah with their strongest 
oaths that they are with you?” Their works 
have failed, so they became losers.  
40 
