## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
69. The righteous are in no way accountable 
for them; it is only a reminder, that they may 
be careful.  
70. So leave alone those who take their religion 
for play and pastime, and whom the worldly 
life has deceived. But remind with it, lest a 
soul becomes damned on account of what it 
has earned. It has no helper or intercessor be-
sides Allah. Even if it offers every equivalent, 
none will be accepted from it. The se are the 
ones who are delivered to perdition by their 
actions. They will have a drink of scalding 
water, and a painful punishment, because 
they used to disbelieve.  
71. Say, “Shall we invoke besides Allah some-
thing that can neither benefit us nor harm us,  
and turn back on our heels after Allah has 
guided us; like someone seduced by the devils 
and confused on earth, who has friends call-
ing him to guidance: 'Come to us'?” Say, “The 
guidance of Allah is the guidance, and we are 
commanded to surrender to the L ord of the 
Universe.”  
72. “And to perform the prayers, and to revere 
Him; it is to Him that you will be gathered.”  
73. It is He who created the heavens and the 
earth in truth. On the Day when He says: 
“Be,” it will be. His saying is the truth, and 
His is the sovereignty on the Day when the 
trumpet is blown. The Knower of secrets and 
declarations. He is the Wise, the Expert.  
74. Abraham said to his father Azar, “Do you 
take idols for gods? I see that you and your 
people are in evident error.”  
75. Thus We sh owed Abraham the empire of 
the heavens and the earth, that he might be 
one of those with certainty.  
76. When the night fell over him, he saw a 
planet. He said, “This is my lord.” But when 
it set, he said, “I do not love those that set.”  
77. Then, when he s aw the moon rising, he 
said, “This is my lord.” But when it set, he said, “If my Lord does not guide me, I will be 
one of the erring people.”  
78. Then, when he saw the sun rising, he said, 
“This is my lord, this is bigger.” But when it set, he said, “O my people, I am innocent of 
your idolatry.  
79. I have directed my attention towards Him 
Who created the heavens and the earth —a 
monotheist— and I am not of the idolaters.”  
80. And his people argued with him. He said, 
“Do you argue with me about Allah, when He  
has guided me? I do not fear what you asso-
ciate with Him, unless my Lord wills it. My 
Lord comprehends all things in knowledge. 
Will you not reconsider?  
81. And why should I fear those you associate 
with Him, and you do not fear associating 
others with Al lah for which He sent down to 
you no authority? Which side is more enti-
tled to security, if you are aware?”  
82. Those who believe, and do not obscure 
their faith with wrongdoing —those will have 
security, and they are guided.  
83. That was Our argument which  We gave to 
Abraham against his people. We elevate by 
degrees whomever We will. Your Lord is 
Wise and Informed.  
84. And We gave him Isaac and Jacob —each 
of them We guided. And We guided Noah 
previously; and from his descendants David, 
and Solomon, and Job,  and Joseph, and Mo-
ses, and Aaron. Thus We reward the right-
eous.  
85. And Zechariah, and John, and Jesus, and 
Elias —every one of them was of the upright.  
86. And Ishmael, and Elijah, and Jonah, and 
Lot— We favored each one of them over all 
other people.  
87. And of their ancestors, and their descend-
ants, and their siblings —We chose them, and 
guided them to a straight path.  
88. Such is Allah’s guidance. He guides with it 
whomever He wills of His servants. Had they 
associated, their deeds would have gone in 
vain.  
89. Those are they to whom We gave the Book, 
and wisdom, and prophethood. If these reject 
them, We have entrusted them to others who 
do not reject them.  
48 
