## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
27. If only you could see, when they are made 
to stand before the Fire; the y will say, “If only 
we could be sent back, and not reject the rev-
elations of our Lord, and be among the faith-
ful.”  
28. What they used to conceal before will be-
come clear to them. And even if they were 
sent back, they would revert to what they 
were forbidd en. They are liars.  
29. And they say, “There is nothing but our life 
in this world, and we will not be resurrected.”  
30. If only you could see, when they are sta-
tioned before their Lord. He will say, “Is this 
not real?” They will say, “Yes indeed, by our 
Lord.” He will say, “Then taste the torment 
for having disbelieved.”  
31. Losers are those who deny the encounter 
with Allah. Then, when the Hour comes 
upon them suddenly, they will say, “Alas for 
us, how we have neglected it.” And they will 
carry their burd ens on their backs —evil is 
what they carry.  
32. The life of this world is nothing but game 
and distraction, but the Home of the Hereaf-ter is better for those who are righteous. Do 
you not understand?  
33. We know that what they say grieves you. It 
is not you they reject, but it is Allah's revela-
tions that the wicked deny.  
34. Other messengers before you were re-
jected, but they endured rejection and perse-
cution until Our help came to them. There can be no change to Allah’s words. News of 
the Messengers has al ready reached you.  
35. If you find their rejection hard to bear, then 
if you can, seek a tunnel into the earth, or a stairway into the heaven, and bring them a 
sign. Had Allah willed, He could have gath-
ered them to guidance. So do not be of the ig-
norant.  
36. Only those who listen will respond. As for 
the dead, Allah will resurrect them; then to 
Him they will be returned.  
37. And they say, “If only a sign could come 
down to him from his Lord.” Say, “Allah is Able to send down a sign, but most of them 
do not know.”  
38. There is no animal on land, nor a bird fly-
ing with its wings, but are communities like 
you. We neglected nothing in the Scripture. 
Then to their Lord they will be gathered.  
39. Those who reject Our revelations are deaf 
and dumb, in total darknes s. Whomever Al-
lah wills, He leaves astray; and whomever He wills, He sets on a straight path.  
40. Say, “Have you considered? if Allah's pun-
ishment came upon you, or the Hour over-
took you, would you call upon any other than 
Allah, if you are sincere?”  
41. In fact, it is Him you will call upon; and if 
He wills, he will remove what you called Him for, and you will forget what you idolized.  
42. We sent messengers to communities be-
fore you, and We afflicted them with suffer-
ing and hardship, that they may humble 
themselves.  
43. If only, when Our calamity came upon 
them, they humbled themselves. But their 
hearts hardened, and Satan made their deeds 
appear good to them.  
44. Then, when they disregarded what they 
were reminded of, We opened for them the 
gates of all t hings. Until, when they delighted 
in what they were given, We seized them sud-
denly; and at once, they were in despair.  
45. Thus the last remnant of the people who 
did wrong was cut off. And praise be to Allah, Lord of the Worlds.  
46. Say, “Have you conside red? If Allah took 
away your hearing and your sight, and set a 
seal on your hearts, what god other than Al-
lah would restore them to you?” Note how 
We explain the revelations in various ways, 
yet they still turn away.  
47. Say, “Have you considered? if Allah 's pun-
ishment descended on you suddenly or grad-
ually, would any be destroyed except the 
wrongdoing people?”  
48. We sent the messengers only as bearers of 
good news and as warners. Those who believe 
46 
