## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
90. Those are they whom Allah has guided, so 
follow their guidance. Say, “I ask of you no 
compensatio n for it; it is just a reminder for 
all mankind.”  
91. They do not value Allah as He should be 
valued, when they say, “Allah did not reveal anything to any human being.” Say, “Who re-
vealed the Scripture which Moses brought—
a light and guidance for humanity? ” You put 
it on scrolls, displaying them, yet concealing 
much. And you were taught what you did not 
know —neither you, nor your ancestors. Say, 
“Allah;” then leave them toying away in their 
speculation.  
92. This too is a Scripture that We revealed —
blessed —verifying what preceded it, that you 
may warn the Mother of Cities and all around 
it. Those who believe in the Hereafter believe 
in it, and are dedicated to their prayers.  
93. Who does greater wrong than someone 
who invents falsehood against Allah, or says,  
“It was revealed to me,” when nothing was re-
vealed to him, or says, “I will reveal the like of 
what Allah revealed”? If only you could see 
the wrongdoers in the floods of death, as the 
angels with arms outstretched: “Give up your 
souls. Today you are bein g repaid with the 
torment of shame for having said about Allah 
other than the truth, and for being too proud 
to accept His revelations.”  
94. “You have come to Us individually, just as 
We created you the first time, leaving behind 
you everything We gave you . We do not see 
with you your intercessors —those you 
claimed were your partners. The link be-
tween you is cut, and what you had asserted has failed you.”  
95. It is Allah Who splits the grain and the 
seed. He brings the living from the dead, and 
He brings th e dead from the living. Such is 
Allah. So how could you deviate?  
96. It is He Who breaks the dawn. And He 
made the night for rest, and the sun and the moon for calculation. Such is the disposition 
of the Almighty, the All -Knowing.  97. And it is He Who created the stars for you, 
that you may be guided by them in the dark-
ness of land and sea. We thus explain the rev-
elations for people who know.  
98. And it is He who produced you from a sin-
gle person, then a repository, then a deposi-
tory. We have detailed the r evelations for 
people who understand.  
99. And it is He who sends down water from 
the sky. With it We produce vegetation of all 
kinds, from which We bring greenery, from 
which We produce grains in clusters. And 
palm -trees with hanging clusters, and vine-
yard s, and olives, and pomegranates —similar 
and dissimilar. Watch their fruits as they 
grow and ripen. Surely in this are signs for 
people who believe.  
100. Yet they attributed to Allah partners —the 
sprites— although He created them. And they 
invented for Him sons and daughters, with-
out any knowledge. Glory be to Him. He is 
exalted, beyond what they describe.  
101. Originator of the heavens and the earth—
how can He have a son when He never had a 
companion? He created all things, and He 
has knowledge of all thing s.  
102. Such is Allah, your Lord. There is no god 
except He, the Creator of all things; so wor-
ship Him. He is responsible for everything.  
103. No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is 
over all vision. He is the Subtle, the Expert.  
104. “Insights have com e to you from your 
Lord. Whoever sees, it is to the benefit of his 
soul; and whoever remains blind, it is to its 
detriment. I am not a guardian over you.”  
105. We thus diversify the revelations, lest they 
say, “You have studied,” and to clarify them 
for pe ople who know.  
106. Follow what was revealed to you from 
your Lord. There is no god but He. And turn 
away from the polytheists.  
107. Had Allah willed, they would not have 
practiced idolatry. We did not appoint you as 
a guardian over them, and you are not a  man-
ager over them.  
49 
