## 5.  THE TABLE   (al-Ma’idah)  
90. O you who believe! Intoxicants, gambling, 
idolatry, and divination are abominations of 
Satan’s doing. Avoid them, so that you may 
prosper.  
91. Satan wants to provoke strife and hatred 
among you through intoxicants and gam-
bling, and to prevent you from the remem-
brance of Allah, and from prayer. Will you 
not desist?  
92. Obey Allah and obey the Messenger, and 
be cautious. If you turn away —know that the 
duty of Our Messeng er is clear communica-
tion.  
93. Those who believe and do righteous deeds 
will not be blamed for what they may have 
eaten, provided they obey, and believe, and do good deeds, then maintain piety and faith, 
then remain righteous and charitable. Allah 
loves the charitable.  
94. O you who believe! Allah will test you with 
something of the game your hands and spears 
obtain, that Allah may know who fears Him 
at heart. Whoever commits aggression after 
that will have a painful punishment.  
95. O you who believe! do not kill game while 
you are in pilgrim sanctity. Whoever of you 
kills any intentionally, its penalty shall be a domestic animal comparable to what he 
killed, as determined by two honest persons 
among you —an offering delivered to the 
Kaabah. Or he may atone  by feeding the 
needy, or its equivalent in fasting, so that he may taste the consequences of his conduct. 
Allah forgives what is past. But whoever re-
peats, Allah will take revenge on him. Allah is 
Almighty, Avenger.  
96. Permitted for you is the catch of s ea, and 
its food —as sustenance for you and for trav-
elers. But forbidden for you is the game of 
land while you are in pilgrim sanctity. And 
fear Allah, to whom you will be gathered.  
97. Allah has appointed the Kaabah, the Sacred 
House, a sanctuary for the p eople, and the Sa-
cred Month, and the offerings, and the gar-
landed. That you may know that Allah knows 
everything in the heavens and the earth, and 
that Allah is Cognizant of all things.  98. Know that Allah is severe in retribution, 
and that Allah is Forgiv ing and Merciful.  
99. The Messenger’s sole duty is to convey. Al-
lah knows what you reveal and what you con-ceal.  
100. Say: “The bad and the good are not equal, 
even though the abundance of the bad may 
impress you. So be conscious of Allah, O you 
who possess  intelligence, that you may suc-
ceed.”  
101. O you who believe! Do not ask about 
things that would trouble you if disclosed to you. But if you were to ask about them while the Quran is being revealed, they will become 
obvious to you. Allah forgives that. All ah is 
Forgiving and Clement.  
102. A people before you asked about them, but 
then came to reject them.  
103. Allah did not institute the superstitions of 
Bahirah, Saibah, Wasilah, or of Hami; but 
those who disbelieve fabricate lies about Al-
lah—most of them do not understand.  
104. And when it is said to them, “Come to 
what Allah has revealed, and to the Messen-
ger,” they say, “Sufficient for us is what we found our forefathers upon.” Even if their 
forefathers knew nothing, and were not 
guided?  
105. O you who b elieve! You are responsible 
for your own souls. He who has strayed can-
not harm you if you are guided. To Allah is 
you return, all of you, and He will inform you 
of what you used to do.  
106. O you who believe! When death ap-
proaches one of you, let two reliable persons 
from among you act as witnesses to the mak-ing of a bequest, or two persons from another 
people if you are travelling in the land and the 
event of death approaches you. Engage them 
after the prayer. If you have doubts, let them 
swear by All ah: “We will not sell our testi-
mony for any price, even if he was a near rel-
ative, and we will not conceal Allah’s testi-mony, for then we would be sinners.”  
107. If it is discovered that they are guilty of 
perjury: let two others take their place, two 
43 
