## 6.  LIVESTOC K  (al-An’am)  
and reform have nothing to fear, nor shall 
they grieve.  
49. But as for those who reject Our revelations, 
torment will afflict them because of their de-
fiance.  
50. Say, “I do not say to you that I possess the 
treasuries of Allah, nor do I know the future, 
nor do I say to you that I am an angel. I only 
follow what i s inspired to me.” Say, “Are the 
blind and the seeing alike? Do you not think?”  
51. And warn with it those who fear to be gath-
ered before their Lord —they have no protec-
tor or intercessor apart from him —perhaps 
they will grow in piety.  
52. And do not drive away those who call upon 
their Lord, morning and evening, seeking His 
attention. You are not accountable for them 
in any way, nor are they accountable for you 
in any way. If you drive them away, you 
would be one of the unjust.  
53. Thus We try some of them by means of 
others, that they may say, “Are these the ones 
whom Allah has favored from among us?” Is 
Allah not aware of the appreciative?  
54. When those who believe in Our revelations 
come to you, say, “Peace be upon you, your 
Lord has prescribed mercy for  Himself. 
Whoever among you does wrong out of igno-
rance, and then repents afterwards and re-
forms —He is Forgiving and Merciful.”  
55. Thus We explain the revelations, and ex-
pose the path of the unrighteous.  
56. Say, “I am forbidden from worshiping 
those you pray to besides Allah.” Say, “I will 
not follow your desires; else I would be lost and not be of those guided.”  
57. Say, “I stand on clear evidence from my 
Lord, and you have rejected Him. I do not 
possess what you seek me to hasten; the deci-sion belongs s olely to Allah. He states the 
truth, and He is the Best of Judges.”  
58. Say, “If I possessed what you seek me to 
hasten, the matter between you and me would have been settled. Allah is well aware 
of the unjust.”  
59. With Him are the keys of the unseen; non e 
knows them except He. And He knows eve-
rything on land and in the sea. Not a leaf falls 
but He knows it; and there is not a single 
grain in the darkness of earth, nor is there an-
ything wet or dry, but is in a clear record.  
60. It is He Who takes you by ni ght, and He 
knows what you earn by day. Then He raises 
you up in it, until a fixed term is fulfilled. 
Then to Him is your return, then He will in-
form you of what you used to do.  
61. He is the Conqueror over His servants, and 
He sends guardians over you, un til, when 
death overtakes one of you, Our envoys take 
him away, and they never fail.  
62. Then they are brought back to Allah, their 
True Master. Unquestionably, His is the 
judgment, and He is the Swiftest of reckon-
ers. 
63. Say, “Who delivers you from the d arkness 
of land and sea?” You call upon Him humbly 
and inwardly: “If He delivers us from this, 
We will surely be among the thankful.”   
64. Say, “It is Allah who delivers you from it, 
and from every disaster. Yet then you associ-ate others with Him.”  
65. Say, “He is Able to send upon you an afflic-
tion, from above you, or from under your 
feet. Or He can divide you into factions, and 
make you taste the violence of one another. 
Note how We explain the revelations, so that 
they may understand.”  
66. But your pe ople rejected it, though it is the 
truth. Say, “I am not responsible for you.”  
67. For every happening is a finality, and you 
will surely know.  
68. When you encounter those who gossip 
about Our revelations, turn away from them, until they engage in another  topic. But should 
Satan make you forget, do not sit after the 
recollection with the wicked people.  
47 
