## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
3. He is Allah in the heavens  and the earth. He 
knows what you keep secret and what you 
make public; and He knows what you earn.  
4. Not one of their Lord’s signs comes to them, 
but they turn away from it.  
5. They denied the truth when it has come to 
them; but soon will reach them the news of 
what they used to ridicule.  
6. Have they not considered how many gener-
ations We destroyed before them? We had established them on earth more firmly than 
We established you, and We sent the clouds 
pouring down abundant rain on them, and 
We made rive rs flow beneath them. But We 
destroyed them for their sins, and established 
other civilizations after them.  
7. Had We sent down upon you a book on pa-
per, and they had touched it with their hands, 
those who disbelieve would have said, “This 
is nothing but p lain magic.”  
8. And they say, “Why was an angel not sent 
down to him.” Had We sent down an angel, 
the matter would have been settled, and they 
would not have been reprieved.  
9. Had We made him an angel, We would 
have made him a man, and confused them 
when they are already confused.  
10. Messengers before you were ridiculed, but 
those who mocked them became besieged by 
what they ridiculed.  
11. Say, “Travel the earth and observe the final 
fate of the deniers.”  
12. Say, “To whom belongs what is in the heav-
ens and the earth?” Say, “To Allah.” He has 
inscribed for Himself mercy. He will gather 
you to the Day of Resurrection, in which 
there is no doubt. Those who lost their souls 
do not believe.  
13. To Him belongs whatever rests in the night 
and the day. He is the Hearing, the Knowing.  
14. Say, “Shall I take for myself a protector 
other than Allah, Originator of the heavens 
and the earth, and He feeds and is not fed?” 
Say, “I am instructed to be the first of those who submit.” And do not be among the idol-
aters.  
15. Say, “I fear, should I defy my Lord, the pun-
ishment of a tremendous Day.”  
16. Whoever is spared on that Day —He had 
mercy on him. That is the clear victory.  
17. If Allah touches you with adversity, none 
can remove it except He. And if He touches 
you with good —He is Capable of everything.  
18. He is the Supreme over His servants. He is 
the Wise, the Expert.  
19. Say, “What thing is more solemn in testi-
mony?” Say, “Allah is Witness between you 
and me. This Quran was revealed to me, that 
I may warn you with it,  and whomever it may 
reach. Do you indeed testify that there are 
other gods with Allah?” Say, “I myself do not 
testify.” Say, “He is but One God, and I am 
innocent of your idolatry.”  
20. Those to whom We have given the Book 
recognize it as they recognize t heir own chil-
dren; but those who have lost their souls do not believe.  
21. Who does greater wrong than someone 
who fabricates lies against Allah, or denies 
His revelations? The wrongdoers will not 
succeed.  
22. On the Day when We gather them all to-
gether, t hen say to the idolaters, “Where are 
your idols, those you used to claim?”  
23. Then their only argument will be to say, 
“By Allah, our Lord, we were not idolaters.”  
24. Look how they lied to themselves. And 
what they invented deserted them.  
25. Among them are those who listen to you; 
but We place covers over their hearts, to pre-
vent them from understanding it, and heavi-
ness in their ears. Even if they see every sign, 
they will not believe in it. Until, when they 
come to you, to argue with you, those who 
disbelieve will say, “These are nothing but 
myths of the ancients.”  
26. They keep others from it, and avoid it 
themselves; but they ruin only their own 
souls, and they do not realize.  
45 
