## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
127. For them is the Home of Peace with their 
Lord, and He is their Master —because of 
what they used to do.  
128. On the Day when He gathers them all to-
gether: “O assembly of jinn, you have ex-
ploited multitudes of humans.” Their adher-
ents among mankind will say, “Our Lord, we 
have profited from one another, but we have 
reached the term that you have assigned for 
us.” He will say, “The Fire is your dwelling, 
wherein you will remain, except as Allah 
wills. Your Lord is Wise and Informed.  
129. Thus We make some of the wrongdoers 
befriend one another, because of what they used to do.  
130. “O assembly of jinn and humans, did there 
not come to you messengers from among 
you, relating to you My revelations, and 
warning you of the meeting of this Day of 
yours?” They wi ll say, “We testify against 
ourselves.” The life of the world seduced them. They will testify against themselves 
that they were disbelievers.  
131. That is because your Lord would not de-
stroy towns for injustice while their inhabit-ants are unaware.  
132. They all have ranks according to what they 
did; and your Lord is not unaware of what 
they do.  
133. Your Lord is the Rich Beyond Need, the 
Possessor of Mercy. If He wills, He can do away with you, and substitute whomever He 
wills in your place, just as He prod uced you 
from the descendants of another people.  
134. What you are promised is coming, and 
you cannot thwart it.  
135. Say, “O my people! Work according to 
your ability, and so will I.” You will come to 
know to whom will belong the sequel of the 
abode.” The wrongdoers will not prevail.  
136. And they set aside for Allah a share of the 
crops and the livestock He created, and they 
say, “This is for Allah,” according to their claim, “and this is for our idols.” But the share 
of their idols does not reach Allah, yet the share of Allah reaches their idols. Evil is their 
judgment.  
137. Likewise, their idols entice many idolaters 
to kill their children, in order to lead them to 
their ruin, and confuse them in their religion. 
Had Allah willed, they would not have done  
it; so leave them to their fraud.  
138. And they say, “These animals and crops 
are restricted; none may eat them except 
those we permit,” by their claims, and ani-
mals whose backs are forbidden, and animals 
over which they do not pronounce the name 
of Allah— fabricating lies against Him. He 
will repay them for what they used to invent.  
139. And they say, “What lies in the wombs of 
these animals is exclusively for our males, and prohibited to our wives.” But if it is still-
born, they can share in it. He will su rely pun-
ish them for their allegations. He is Wise and 
Knowing.  
140. Lost are those who kill their children fool-
ishly, with no basis in knowledge, and forbid 
what Allah has provided for them —innova-
tions about Allah. They have gone astray. 
They are not guid ed. 
141. It is He who produces gardens, both culti-
vated and wild, and date -palms, and crops of 
diverse tastes, and olives and pomegranates, 
similar and dissimilar. Eat of its fruit when it 
yields, and give its due on the day of its har-
vest, and do not wast e. He does not love the 
wasteful.  
142. Among the livestock are some for trans-
portation, and some for clothing. Eat of what Allah has provided for you, and do not follow 
the footsteps of Satan. He is to you an out-
right enemy.  
143. Eight pairs: two of the sheep, and two of 
the goats. Say, “Did He forbid the two males, 
or the two females, or what the wombs of the 
two females contain? Inform me with 
knowledge, if you are truthful.” 
144. And two of the camels, and two of the cat-
tle. Say, “Did He forbid the two m ales, or the 
two females, or what the wombs of the two 
51 
