## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
you.” Every time a cr owd enters, it will curse 
its sister -crowd. Until, when they are all in it, 
the last of them will say to the first of them, 
“Our Lord, these are the ones who misled us, 
so inflict on them a double punishment in the 
Fire.” He will say, “Each will have a dou ble, 
but you do not know.”  
39. The first of them will say to the last of them, 
“You have no advantage over us, so taste the 
torment for what you used to earn.”  
40. Those who reject Our revelations and are 
too arrogant to uphold them —the doors of 
Heaven wil l not be opened for them, nor will 
they enter Paradise, until the camel passes 
through the eye of the needle. Thus We repay 
the guilty.  
41. For them is a couch of hell, and above them 
are sheets of fire. Thus We repay the wrong-
doers.  
42. As for those who b elieve and do righteous 
works —We never burden any soul beyond its 
capacity —these are the inhabitants of the 
Garden; abiding therein eternally.  
43. We will remove whatever rancor is in their 
hearts. Rivers will flow beneath them. And 
they will say, “Praise be to Allah, who has 
guided us to this. Had Allah not guided us, 
we would never be guided. The messengers of 
our Lord did come with the truth.” And it will 
be proclaimed to them, “This is the Garden 
you are made to inherit, on account of what you used to d o.” 
44. And the inhabitants of the Garden will call 
out to the inmates of the Fire, “We found 
what our Lord promised us to be true; did 
you find what your Lord promised you to be 
true?” They will say, “Yes.” Thereupon a 
caller will announce in their midst,  “The 
curse of Allah is upon the wrongdoers.”  
45. “Those who hinder from the path of Allah, 
and seek to distort it, and who deny the Here-
after.”  
46. And between them is a partition, and on 
the Elevations are men who recognize every-
one by their features. Th ey will call to the in-
habitants of the Garden, “Peace be upon you.” They have not entered it, but they are 
hoping.  
47. And when their eyes are directed towards 
the inmates of the Fire, they will say, “Our 
Lord, do not place us among the wrongdoing 
people.”  
48. And the dwellers of the Elevations will call 
to men they recognize by their features, say-
ing, “Your hoardings did not avail you, nor 
did your arrogance.”  
49. “Are these the ones you swore Allah will 
not touch with mercy?” “Enter the Garden; 
you have nothing to fear, and you will not 
grieve.”  
50. The inmates of the Fire will call on the in-
habitants of the Garden, “Pour some water 
over us, or some of what Allah has provided for you.” They will say, “Allah has forbidden 
them for the disbelievers.”  
51. Those who took their religion lightly, and 
in jest, and whom the worldly life deceived. Today We will ignore them, as they ignored 
the meeting on this Day of theirs, and they 
used to deny Our revelations.  
52. We have given them a Scripture, which We 
detailed  with knowledge —guidance and 
mercy for people who believe.  
53. Are they waiting for anything but its fulfill-
ment? The Day its fulfillment comes true, 
those who disregarded it before will say, “The 
messengers of our Lord did come with the 
truth. Have we any  intercessors to intercede 
for us? Or, could we be sent back, to behave 
differently from the way we behaved before?” 
They ruined their souls, and what they used 
to invent has failed them.  
54. Your Lord is Allah; He who created the 
heavens and the earth in six days, then estab-
lished Himself on the Throne. The night 
overtakes the day, as it pursues it persistently; 
and the sun, and the moon, and the stars are 
subservient by His command. His is the cre-
ation, and His is the command. Blessed is Al-
lah, Lord of al l beings.  
55. Call upon your Lord humbly and privately. 
He does not love the aggressors.  
55 
