## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
108. Do not insult those they call upon besides 
Allah, lest they insult Allah out of hostility 
and ignorance. We made attractive to every 
community their deeds. Then to their Lord is 
their return, and He will inform them of what 
they us ed to do.  
109. They swear by Allah, with their most sol-
emn oaths, that if a miracle were to come to 
them, they would believe in it. Say, “The mir-
acles are only with Allah.” But how do you 
know? Even if it did come, they still would 
not believe.  
110. And We  turn away their hearts and their 
visions, as they refused to believe in it the first 
time, and We leave them blundering in their 
rebellion.  
111. Even if We sent down the angels to them, 
and the dead spoke to them, and We gathered 
all things before them, they still would not 
believe, unless Allah wills; but most of them 
are ignorant.  
112. Likewise, We have assigned for every 
prophet an enemy —human and jinn devils —
inspiring one another with fancy words in or-
der to deceive. But had your Lord willed, they 
wou ld not have done it. So leave them to their 
fabrications.  
113. So that the hearts of those who do not be-
lieve in the Hereafter may incline to it, and be 
content with it, and that they may perpetrate 
whatever they perpetrate.  
114. “Shall I seek a judge othe r than Allah, 
when He is the One who revealed to you the 
Book, explained in detail?” Those to whom We gave the Book know that it is the truth re-
vealed from your Lord. So do not be of those 
who doubt.  
115. The Word of your Lord has been com-
pleted, in truth and justice. There is no 
changing to His words. He is the Hearer, the 
Knower.  
116. If you were to obey most of those on earth, 
they would divert you from Allah’s path. 
They follow nothing but assumptions, and 
they only conjecture.  117. Your Lord knows best who strays from His 
path, and He knows best the guided ones.  
118. So eat of that over which the Name of Al-
lah was pronounced, if you indeed believe in His revelations.  
119. And why should you not eat of that over 
which the Name of Allah is pronounced, 
when He has detailed for you what is prohib-
ited for you, unless you are compelled by ne-
cessity? Many lead astray with their opinions, 
through lack of knowledge. Your Lord knows 
best the transgressors.  
120. So abandon sin, outward and inward. 
Those who commit sins will be repaid for 
what they used to perpetrate.  
121. And do not eat from that over which the 
Name of Allah was not pronounced, for it is 
abomination. The devils inspire their follow-
ers to argue with you; but if you obey them, 
you would be polytheists . 
122. Is he who was dead, then We gave him life, 
and made for him a light by which he walks 
among the people, like he who is in total 
darkness, and cannot get out of it? Thus the 
doings of disbelievers are made to appear 
good to them.  
123. And thus We set  up in every city its lead-
ing wicked sinners, to conspire in it, but they conspire only against themselves, and they do 
not realize it.  
124. When a sign comes to them, they say, “We 
will not believe unless we are given the like of what was given to Allah’s  messengers.” Allah 
knows best where to place His message. Hu-miliation from Allah and severe torment will 
afflict the criminals for their scheming.  
125. Whomever Allah desires to guide, He 
spreads open his heart to Islam; and whom-
ever He desires to misguid e, He makes his 
heart narrow, constricted, as though he were 
climbing up the sky. Allah thus lays defile-
ment upon those who do not believe.  
126. This is the straight path of your Lord. We 
have explained the revelations in detail for 
people who recollect.  
50 
