## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
Saleh, bring upon us what you threaten us 
with, if you are one of the messengers.”  
78. Whereupon the quake overtook them, and 
they became lifeless bodies in their homes.  
79. Then he turned away from them, and said, 
“O my people, I have delivered to you the 
message of my Lord, and I have advised you, 
but you do not like those who give advice.”  
80. And Lot, when he said to his people, “Do 
you commit lewdness no people anywhere 
have ever committed before you?”  
81. “You lust after men rather than women. 
You are an excessive people.”  
82. And his people's only answer was to say, 
“Expel them from your town; they are purist people.”  
83. But We saved him and his family, except 
for his wife; she was of those who lagged be-hind.  
84. And We rained down on them a rain; note 
the consequences for the sinners.  
85. And to Median, their brother Shuaib. He 
said, “O my people, worship Allah; you have 
no god other than Him. A clear proof has come to you from your Lord. Give full meas-
ure and  weight, and do not cheat people out 
of their rights, and do not corrupt the land 
once it has been set right. This is better for 
you, if you are believers.”  
86. “And do not lurk on every path, making 
threats and turning away from the path of Al-lah those wh o believe in Him, seeking to dis-
tort it. And remember how you were few, and how He made you numerous. So note the 
consequences for the corrupters.”  
87. “Since some of you believed in what I was 
sent with, and some did not believe, be pa-
tient until Allah ju dges between us; for He is 
the Best of Judges.”  
88. The arrogant elite among his people said, 
“O Shuaib, We will evict you from our town, along with those who believe with you, unless you return to our religion.” He said, “Even if 
we are unwilling?”  89. “We would be fabricating falsehood 
against Allah, if we were to return to your re-
ligion, after Allah has saved us from it. It is 
not for us to return to it, unless Allah, our 
Lord, wills. Our Lord embraces all things in 
knowledge. In Allah we place our trust. Our 
Lord, decide between us and our people in 
truth, for You are the Best of Deciders.”  
90. The elite of his people who disbelieved 
said, “If you follow Shuaib, you will be los-ers.”  
91. Thereupon, the quake struck them; and 
they became lifeless bodies in  their homes.  
92. Those who rejected Shuaib —as if they 
never prospered therein. Those who rejected Shuaib —it was they who were the losers.  
93. So he turned away from them, and said, “O 
my people, I have delivered to you the mes-
sages of my Lord, and I have advised you, so 
why should I grieve over a disbelieving peo-
ple?”  
94. We did not send any prophet to any town 
but We afflicted its people with misery and 
adversity, so that they may humble them-
selves.  
95. Then We substituted prosperity in place of 
hardship.  Until they increased in number, 
and said, “Adversity and prosperity has 
touched our ancestors.” Then We seized them suddenly, while they were unaware.  
96. Had the people of the towns believed and 
turned righteous, We would have opened for 
them the blessin gs of the heaven and the 
earth; but they rejected the truth, so We 
seized them by what they were doing.  
97. Do the people of the towns feel secure that 
Our might will not come upon them by night, 
while they sleep?  
98. Do the people of the towns feel secure that 
Our might will not come upon them by day, 
while they play?  
99. Do they feel safe from Allah’s plan? None 
feel safe from Allah’s plan except the losing 
people.  
57 
