## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
do not approach this tree, lest y ou become 
sinners.”  
20. But Satan whispered to them, to reveal to 
them their nakedness, which was invisible to 
them. He said, “Your Lord has only forbid-
den you this tree, lest you become angels, or become immortals.”  
21. And he swore to them, “I am a sincere ad-
visor to you.”  
22. So he lured them with deceit. And when 
they tasted the tree, their nakedness became 
evident to them, and they began covering 
themselves with the leaves of the Garden. 
And their Lord called out to them, “Did I not 
forbid you fro m this tree, and say to you that 
Satan is a sworn enemy to you?”  
23. They said, “Our Lord, we have done wrong 
to ourselves. Unless You forgive us, and have 
mercy on us, we will be among the losers.”  
24. He said, “Fall, some of you enemies to one 
another. On earth you will have residence 
and livelihood for a while.”  
25. He said, “In it you will live, and in it you 
will die, and from it you will be brought out.”  
26. O children of Adam! We have provided 
you with clothing to cover your bodies, and for luxury. But the clothing of piety —that is 
best. These are some of Allah’s revelations, so 
that they may take heed.  
27. O Children of Adam! Do not let Satan se-
duce you, as he drove your parents out of the 
Garden, stripping them of their garments, to 
show them their  nakedness. He sees you, him 
and his clan, from where you cannot see 
them. We have made the devils friends of 
those who do not believe.  
28. And when they commit an indecency, they 
say, “We found our parents doing this, and 
Allah has commanded us to do it.”  Say, “Al-
lah does not command indecencies. Are you 
attributing to Allah what you do not know?”  
29. Say, “My Lord commands justice, and to 
stand devoted at every place of worship. So 
call upon Him, and dedicate your faith to Him alone. Just as He originated  you, so you 
will return.”  
30.  Some He has guided, and some have de-
served misguidance. They have adopted the 
devils for patrons rather than Allah, and they 
assume that they are guided.  
31. O Children of Adam! Dress properly at 
every place of worship, and eat and drink, but 
do not be excessive. He does not love the ex-
cessive.  
32. Say, “Who forbade Allah’s finery which He 
has produced for His servants, and the de-
lights of livelihood?” Say, “They are for those who believe, in this present world, but exclu-
sively theirs on the Day of Resurrection.” We 
thus detail the revelations for people who 
know.  
33. Say, “My Lord has forbidden immorali-
ties—both open and secret —and sin, and un-
justified aggression, and that you associate 
with Allah anything for which He reveal ed no 
sanction, and that you say about Allah what 
you do not know.”  
34. For every nation is an appointed time. 
When their time has come, they cannot delay 
it by one hour, nor can they advance it.  
35. O Children of Adam! When messengers 
from among you come to you, relating to you 
My revelations —whoever practices piety and 
reforms —upon them shall be no fear, nor 
shall they grieve.  
36. But as for those who reject Our revelations, 
and are too proud to accept them —these are 
the inmates of the Fire, where they will re-
main forever.  
37. Who does greater wrong than he who in-
vents lies about Allah, or denies His revela-
tions? These —their share of the decree will 
reach them. Until, when Our envoys come to 
them, to take their souls away, they will say, 
“Where are they wh om you used to pray to 
besides Allah?” They will say, “They have 
abandoned us,” and they will testify against themselves that they were faithless.  
38. He will say, “Join the crowds of jinn and 
humans who have gone into the Fire before 
54 
