## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
turned away, except for a few of you, recant-
ing. 
84. And We made a covenant with you: “You 
shall not shed the blood of your own, nor 
shall you evict your own from your homes.” 
You agreed, and were all witnesses.  
85. But here you are , killing your own, and ex-
pelling a group of your own from their 
homes —conspiring against them in wrong-
doing and hostility. And if they come to you 
as captives, you ransom them, although it was 
forbidden to you. Is it that you believe in part 
of the Scripture, and disbelieve in part? What 
is the reward for those among you who do 
that but humiliation in this life? And on the 
Day of Resurrection, they will be assigned to 
the most severe torment. Allah is not una-
ware of what you do.  
86. Those are they who bou ght the present life 
for the Hereafter, so the punishment will not 
be lightened for them, nor will they be 
helped.  
87. We gave Moses the Scripture, and sent a 
succession of messengers after him. And We 
gave Jesus son of Mary the clear proofs, and 
We suppor ted him with the Holy Spirit. Is it 
that whenever a messenger comes to you with 
anything your souls do not desire, you grew 
arrogant, calling some impostors, and killing 
others?  
88. And they said, “Our hearts are sealed.” Ra-
ther, Allah has cursed them for their ingrati-
tude. They have little faith.  
89. And when a scripture came to them from 
Allah, confirming what they have —although 
previously they were seeking victory against 
those who disbelieved —but when there came 
to them what they recognized, they disbe-
lieved in it. So Allah’s curse is upon the dis-
believers.  
90. Miserable is what they sold their souls 
for—rejecting what Allah has revealed, out of 
resentment that Allah would send down His 
grace upon whomever He chooses from 
among His servants. Thus they incurred 
wrath upon wrath. And there is a demeaning 
punishment for the disbelievers.  91. And when it is said to them, “Believe in 
what Allah has revealed,” they say, “We be-
lieve in what was revealed to us,” and they re-
ject anything beyond that, although it is the 
truth which confirms what they have. Say, 
“Why did you kill Allah’s prophets before, if 
you were believers?”  
92. Moses came to you with clear proofs, yet 
you adopted the calf in his absence, and you 
were in the wrong.  
93. And We made a covenant with  you, and 
raised the Mount above you: “Take what We have given you firmly, and listen.” They said, 
“We hear and disobey.” And their hearts be-
came filled with the love of the calf because of 
their disbelief. Say, “Wretched is what your 
faith commands you to  do, if you are believ-
ers.”  
94. Say, “If the Final Home with Allah is yours 
alone, to the exclusion of all other people, then wish for death if you are sincere.”  
95. But they will never wish for it, because of 
what their hands have forwarded. Allah is 
aware of the evildoers.  
96. You will find them, of all mankind, the 
most eager for life, even more than the poly-
theists. Every one of them wishes he could 
live a thousand years; but to be granted a long 
life will not nudge him from the punishment. 
Allah is Se eing of what they do.  
97. Say, “Whoever is hostile to Gabriel —it is 
he who revealed it to your heart by Allah’s 
leave, confirming what preceded it, and guid-
ance and good news for the believers.”  
98. Whoever is hostile to Allah, and His angels, 
and His mess engers, and Gabriel, and Mi-
chael —Allah is hostile to the faithless.  
99. We have revealed to you clear signs, and 
none rejects them except the sinners.  
100. Is it not that whenever they make a cove-
nant, some of them toss it aside? In fact, most 
of them do n ot believe.  
101. And when there came to them a messen-
ger from Allah, confirming what they had, a faction of those who were given the Book 
5 
