## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
130. And We afflicted the people of Pharaoh 
with barren years, and with shortage of crops, 
that they may take heed.  
131. When something good came their way, 
they said, “This is ours.” And when some-
thing bad happened to them, they ascribed 
the evil omen to Moses and those with him. 
In fact, their omen is with Allah, but most of 
them do not know.  
132. And they said, “No matter what sign you 
bring us, to bewitch us with, we will not be-
lieve in you.”  
133. So We let loose upon them the flood, and 
the locusts, and the lice, and the frogs, and 
blood —all explicit signs —but they were too 
arrogant. They were a sinful people.  
134. Whenever a plague befell them, they 
would say, “O Moses, pray to your Lord for us, according to the covenant He made with 
you. If you lift the plague from us, we will be-
lieve in you, and let the Children of Israel go 
with you.”  
135. But when We lifted the plague from them, 
for a term they were to fulfill, they broke their 
promise.  
136. So We took vengeance on them, and 
drowned them in the sea —because they re-
jected Our signs, and paid no heed to them.  
137. And We mad e the oppressed people in-
herit the eastern and western parts of the 
land, which We had blessed. Thus the fair 
promise of your Lord to the Children of Israel 
was fulfilled, because of their endurance. And 
We destroyed what Pharaoh and his people 
had built, and what they had harvested.  
138. And We delivered the Children of Israel 
across the sea. And when they came upon a 
people who were devoted to some statues of 
theirs, they said, “O Moses, make for us a god, 
as they have gods.” He said, “You are truly an 
ignorant people.”  
139. “What these people are concerned with is 
perdition, and their deeds are based on false-
hoods.”  140. He said, “Shall I seek for you a god other 
than Allah, when He has favored you over all 
other people?”  
141. Remember how We saved you fr om Phar-
aoh’s people, who subjected you to the worst 
of sufferings —killing your sons and sparing 
your women. In that was a tremendous trial 
from your Lord.  
142. And We appointed to Moses thirty nights, 
and completed them with ten; and thus the 
time appointe d by his Lord was forty nights. 
And Moses said to his brother Aaron: “Take 
my place among my people, and be upright, 
and do not follow the way of the mischief -
makers.”  
143. And when Moses came to Our appoint-
ment, and his Lord spoke to him, he said, 
“My Lor d, allow me to look and see You.” He 
said, “You will not see Me, but look at the 
mountain; if it stays in its place, you will see 
Me.” But when his Lord manifested Himself 
to the mountain, He turned it into dust, and 
Moses fell down unconscious. Then, when he 
recovered, he said, “Glory be to you, I repent 
to you, and I am the first of the believers.”  
144. He said, “O Moses, I have chosen you over 
all people for My messages and for My 
Words. So take what I have given you, and be 
one of the thankful.”  
145. And We inscribed for him in the Tablets 
all kinds of enlightenments, and decisive ex-
planation of all things. “Hold fast to them, 
and exhort your people to adopt the best of 
them. I will show you the fate of the sinners.”  
146. I will turn away from My revelat ions those 
who behave proudly on earth without justifi-
cation. Even if they see every sign, they will not believe in it; and if they see the path of 
rectitude, they will not adopt it for a path; and 
if they see the path of error, they will adopt it 
for a path. That is because they denied Our 
revelations, and paid no attention to them.  
147. Those who deny Our revelations and the 
meeting of the Hereafter —their deeds will 
come to nothing. Will they be repaid except according to what they used to do?  
59 
