## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
56. And do not corrupt on earth after its refor-
mation, and pray to Him with fear and hope. 
Allah’s mercy is close to the doers of good.  
57. It is He who sends the wind  ahead of His 
mercy. Then, when they have gathered up 
heavy clouds, We drive them to a dead land, 
where We make water come down, and with 
it We bring out all kinds of fruits. Thus We 
bring out the dead —perhaps you will reflect.  
58. As for the good land, it yields its produce 
by the leave of its Lord. But as for the bad, it 
produces nothing but hardship and misery. Thus We explain the revelations in various 
ways for people who are thankful.  
59. We sent Noah to his people. He said, “O 
my people! Worship Allah; you have no god other than Him. I fear for you the punish-
ment of a tremendous Day.”  
60. The dignitaries among his people said, 
“We see that you are in obvious error.”  
61. He said, “O my people, I am not in error, 
but I am a messenger from the Lord of the  
Worlds.”  
62. “I deliver to you the messages of my Lord, 
and I advise you, and I know from Allah what 
you do not know.”  
63. “Do you wonder that a reminder has come 
to you from your Lord, through a man from among you, to warn you, and to lead you to righteo usness, so that you may attain 
mercy?”  
64. But they called him a liar. So We saved him 
and those with him in the Ark, and We 
drowned those who rejected Our revelations. 
They were blind people.  
65. And to Aad, their brother Hud. He said, “O 
my people! Worsh ip Allah; you have no god 
other than Him. Will you not take heed?”  
66. The elite of his people who disbelieved 
said, “We see foolishness in you, and we think 
that you are a liar.”  
67. He said, “O my people! There is no foolish-
ness in me, but I am a messeng er from the 
Lord of the Worlds.  68. “I convey to you the messages of my Lord, 
and I am a trustworthy adviser to you.”  
69. “Are you surprised that a reminder has 
come to you from your Lord, through a man 
from among you, to warn you? Remember 
how He made you  successors after the people 
of Noah, and increased you greatly in stature. And remember Allah’s blessings, so that you 
may prosper.”  
70. They said, “Did you come to us to make us 
worship Allah alone, and abandon what our 
ancestors used to worship? Then bring us what you threaten us with, if you are truth-
ful.”  
71. He said, “Condemnation and wrath have 
befallen you from your Lord. Are you arguing with me over names, which you and your an-
cestors invented, for which Allah sent down 
no authority? Just wait; I am waiting with 
you.”  
72. So We saved him and those with him, by 
mercy from Us, and We cut off the roots of those who rejected Our revelations and were 
not believers.  
73. And to Thamood, their brother Saleh. He 
said, “O my people! Worship Allah; you have  
no god other than Him. Clarification has 
come to you from your Lord. This she -camel 
of Allah is a sign for you. So leave her to graze on Allah’s earth, and do her no harm, lest a 
painful penalty seizes you.”  
74. “And remember how He made you succes-
sors af ter Aad, and settled you in the land. 
You make for yourselves mansions on its 
plains, and carve out dwellings in the moun-
tains. So remember Allah’s benefits, and do 
not roam the earth corruptingly.”  
75. The elite of his people, who were arrogant, 
said to t he common people who had believed, 
“Do you know that Saleh is sent from his 
Lord?” They said, “We are believers in what 
he was sent with.”  
76. Those who were arrogant said, “We reject 
what you believe in.”  
77. So they hamstrung the she -camel, and de-
fied the command of their Lord, and said, “O 
56 
