## 6.  LIVESTOCK   (al-An’am)  
females contain? Were you present when Al-
lah enjoined this upon you?” Who does 
greater wrong than he who invents lies and 
attributes them to Allah, in order to mislead 
people without knowledge? Allah d oes not 
guide the wicked people.  
145. Say, “In what was revealed to me, I find 
nothing forbidden to a consumer who eats it, except carrion, or spilled blood, or the flesh 
of swine —because it is impure— or a sinful 
offering dedicated to other than Allah. But if 
someone is compelled by necessity, without 
being deliberate or malicious —your Lord is 
Forgiving and Merciful.  
146. For the Jews We forbade everything with 
claws. As of cattle and sheep: We forbade them their fat, except what adheres to their 
backs, or the entrails, or what is mixed with 
bone. This is how We penalized them for 
their inequity. We are indeed truthful.  
147. If they accuse you of lying, say, “Your Lord 
is Possessor of infinite mercy, but His wrath 
cannot be averted from the guilty people.”  
148. The polytheists will say, “Had Allah willed, 
we would not have practiced idolatry, nor 
would have our forefathers, nor would we have prohibited anything.” Likewise those 
before them lied, until they tasted Our might. 
Say, “Do you have any knowledge tha t you 
can produce for us? You follow nothing but 
conjecture, and you only guess.”  
149. Say, “To Allah belongs the conclusive ar-
gument. Had He willed, He would have 
guided you all.”  
150. Say, “Produce your witnesses who would 
testify that Allah has prohibited this.” If they 
testify, do not testify with them. And do not follow the whims of those who deny Our rev-
elation, and those who do not believe in the 
Hereafter, and those who equate others with 
their Lord.  
151. Say, “Come, let me tell you what your Lord 
has forbidden you: that you associate nothing 
with Him; that you honor your parents; that 
you do not kill your children because of pov-
erty—We provide for you and for them; that 
you do not come near indecencies, whether outward or inward; and that you do not  kill 
the soul which Allah has sanctified —except 
in the course of justice. All this He has en-
joined upon you, so that you may under-
stand.”  
152. And do not come near the property of the 
orphan, except with the best intentions, until 
he reaches maturity. And  give full weight and 
full measure, equitably. We do not burden 
any soul beyond its capacity. And when you 
speak, be fair, even if it concerns a close rela-tive. And fulfill your covenant with Allah. All 
this He has enjoined upon you, so that you 
may take h eed. 
153. This is My path, straight, so follow it. And 
do not follow the other paths, lest they divert 
you from His path. All this He has enjoined 
upon you, that you may refrain from wrong-
doing.  
154. Then We gave Moses the Scripture, per-
fect for the righte ous, and explaining every-
thing clearly, and a beacon, and mercy, that 
they may believe in the encounter with their 
Lord.  
155. This too is a blessed Scripture that We re-
vealed; so follow it, and be righteous, that you 
may receive mercy.  
156. Lest you say, “The Scripture was revealed 
to two parties before us, and we were una-
ware of their teachings.”  
157. Or lest you say, “Had the Scripture been 
revealed to us, we would have been better 
guided than they.” Clarification has come to 
you from your Lord, and guid ance, and 
mercy. Who then does greater wrong than he 
who gives the lie to Allah's messages, and 
turns away from them? We will repay those 
who turn away from Our messages with the 
worst kind of punishment, because of their 
turning away.  
158. Are they waiting for anything but for the 
angels to come to them, or for your Lord to 
arrive, or for some of your Lord’s signs to 
come? On the Day when some of your Lord’s 
signs come, no soul will benefit from its faith 
unless it had believed previously, o r had 
52 
