## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
100. Is it not guidance for those who inherit the 
land after its inhabitants, that if We wi lled, 
We could strike them for their sins? And seal 
up their hearts, so that they would not hear?  
101. These towns —We narrate to you some of 
their tales. Their messengers came to them 
with the clear signs, but they would not be-
lieve in what they had reject ed previously. 
Thus Allah seals the hearts of the disbelievers.  
102. We found most of them untrue to their 
covenants; We found most of them corrupt.  
103. Then, after them, We sent Moses with Our 
miracles to Pharaoh and his establishment, 
but they denounced  them. So consider the 
end of the evildoers.  
104. Moses said, “O Pharaoh, I am a messenger 
from the Lord of the Worlds.”  
105. “It is only proper that I should not say 
about Allah anything other than the truth. I 
have come to you with clear evidence from 
your Lord, so let the Children of Israel go 
with me.”  
106. He said, “If you brought a miracle, then 
present it, if you are truthful.”  
107. So he threw his staff, and it was an appar-
ent serpent.  
108. And He pulled out his hand, and it was 
white to the onloo kers.  
109. The notables among Pharaoh’s people 
said, “This is really a skilled magician.”  
110. “He wants to evict you from your land, so 
what do you recommend?”  
111. They said, “Put him off, and his brother, 
and send heralds to the cities.”  
112. “And let t hem bring you every skillful ma-
gician.”  
113. The magicians came to Pharaoh, and said, 
“Surely there is a reward for us, if we are the victors.”  
114. He said, “Yes, and you will be among my 
favorites.”  
115. They said, “O Moses! Either you throw, or 
we are t he ones to throw.”  116. He said, “You throw!” And when they 
threw, they beguiled the eyes of the people, 
and intimidated them, and produced a 
mighty magic.  
117. And We inspired Moses: “Throw your 
staff.” And at once, it swallowed what they 
were faking.  
118. So the truth came to pass, and what they 
were producing came to nothing.  
119. There they were defeated, and utterly re-
duced.  
120. And the magicians fell to their knees.  
121. They said, “We have believed in the Lord 
of the Worlds.”  
122. “The Lord of Mo ses and Aaron.”  
123. Pharaoh said, “Did you believe in Him be-
fore I have given you permission? This is 
surely a conspiracy you schemed in the city, 
in order to expel its people from it. You will 
surely know.”  
124. “I will cut off your hands and your feet o n 
opposite sides; then I will crucify you all.”  
125. They said, “It is to our Lord that we will 
return.”  
126. “You are taking vengeance on us only be-
cause we have believed in the signs of our 
Lord when they have come to us.” “Our Lord! 
Pour out patience up on us, and receive our 
souls in submission.”  
127. The chiefs of Pharaoh's people said, “Will 
you let Moses and his people cause trouble in 
the land, and forsake you and your gods?” He 
said, “We will kill their sons, and spare their 
women. We have absolute power over them.”  
128. Moses said to his people, “Seek help in Al-
lah, and be patient. The earth belongs to Al-
lah. He gives it in inheritance to whomever He wills of His servants, and the future be-
longs to the righteous.”  
129. They said, “We were persecuted  before 
you came to us, and after you came to us.” He said, “Perhaps your Lord will destroy your 
enemy, and make you successors in the land; 
then He will see how you behave.”  
58 
