## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
threw the Book of Allah behind their backs, 
as if they do not know.  
102. And they followed what the devils taught 
during the reign of Solomon. It was not Solo-
mon who disbelieved, but it was the devils 
who disbelieved. They taught the people 
witchcraft and what was revealed in Babylon 
to the two angels Harut and Marut. They did not teach anybody until they had said, “W e 
are a test, so do not lose faith.” But they learned from them the means to cause sepa-
ration between man and his wife. But they 
cannot harm anyone except with Allah's per-
mission. And they learned what would harm 
them and not benefit them. Yet they knew 
that whoever deals in it will have no share in 
the Hereafter. Miserable is what they sold 
their souls for, if they only knew.  
103. Had they believed and been righteous, the 
reward from Allah would have been better, if they only knew.  
104. O you who believe! Do not say ambiguous 
words, but say words of respect, and listen. 
The disbelievers will have a painful torment.  
105. It is never the wish of the disbelievers from 
among the People of the Book, nor of the pol-ytheists, that any good should be sent down 
to yo u from your Lord. But Allah chooses for 
His mercy whomever He wills. Allah is Pos-
sessor of Sublime Grace.  
106. We never nullify a verse, nor cause it to be 
forgotten, unless We bring one better than it, 
or similar to it. Do you not know that Allah 
is capab le of all things?  
107. Do you not know that to Allah belongs the 
sovereignty of the heavens and the earth, and 
that apart from Allah you have no guardian 
or helper?  
108. Or do you want to question your Messen-
ger as Moses was questioned before? Who-
ever exch anges faith for disbelief has strayed 
from the right path.  
109. Many of the People of the Book wish to 
turn you back into unbelievers after you have believed, out of envy on their part, after the Truth has become clear to them. But pardon and overlook, unt il Allah brings His com-
mand. Allah has power over all things.  
110. And perform the prayer, and give alms. 
Whatever good you forward for yourselves, 
you will find it with Allah. Allah is Seeing of 
everything you do.  
111. And they say, “None will enter Heave n un-
less he is a Jew or a Christian.” These are their 
wishes. Say, “Produce your proof, if you are 
truthful.”  
112. In fact, whoever submits himself to Allah, 
and is a doer of good, will have his reward 
with his Lord —they have nothing to fear, nor 
shall the y grieve.  
113. The Jews say, “The Christians are not 
based on anything;” and the Christians say, “The Jews are not based on anything.” Yet they both read the Scripture. Similarly, the ig-
norant said the same thing. Allah will judge 
between them on the Day o f Resurrection re-
garding their differences.  
114. Who is more unjust than him who forbids 
the remembrance of Allah’s name in places of worship, and contributes to their ruin? These ought not to enter them except in fear. For 
them is disgrace in this world, and for them 
is a terrible punishment in the Hereafter.  
115. To Allah belong the East and the West. 
Whichever way you turn, there is Allah’s 
presence. Allah is Omnipresent and Omnis-
cient.  
116. And they say, “Allah has begotten a son.” 
Be He glorified. Rath er, His is everything in 
the heavens and the earth; all are obedient to Him.  
117. Originator of the heavens and the earth. 
Whenever He decrees a thing, He says to it, 
“Be,” and it becomes.  
118. Those who do not know say, “If only Allah 
would speak to us, or a sign would come to us.” Thus said those who were before them. 
Their hearts are alike. We have made the 
signs clear for people who are certain.  
6 
