## 9.  REPENTANCE   (at-Tawbah)  
8. How? Whenever they overcome you, they 
respect neither kinship nor treaty with you. 
They satisfy you with lip service, but their 
hearts refuse, and most of them are immoral.  
9. They traded away Allah's revelations for a 
cheap price,  so they barred others from His 
path. How evil is what they did.  
10. Towards a believer they respect neither 
kinship nor treaty. These are the transgres-sors.  
11. But if they repent, and perform the prayers, 
and give the obligatory charity, then they are 
your brethren in faith. We detail the revela-
tions for a people who know.  
12. But if they violate their oaths after their 
pledge, and attack your religion, then fight the leaders of disbelief —they have no faith—
so that they may desist.  
13. Will you not fight a people who violated 
their oaths, and planned to exile the Messen-ger, and initiated hostilities against you? Do you fear them? It is Allah you should fear, if 
you are believers.  
14. Fight them. Allah will punish them at your 
hands, and humiliate them, and  help you 
against them, and heal the hearts of a believ-
ing people.  
15. And He will remove the anger of their 
hearts. Allah redeems whomever He wills. 
Allah is Knowledgeable and Wise.  
16. Or do you think that you will be left alone, 
without Allah identifyin g which of you will 
strive, and take no supporters apart from Al-
lah, His Messenger, and the believers? Allah 
is well Aware of what you do.  
17. It is not for the polytheists to attend Allah’s 
places of worship while professing their dis-belief. These— their w orks are in vain, and in 
the Fire they will abide.  
18. The only people to attend Allah’s places of 
worship are those who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and pray regularly, and practice 
regular charity, and fear none but Allah. 
These are most likely to be guided.  19. Do you consider giving water to pilgrims 
and maintaining the Sacred Mosque the same 
as believing in Allah and the Last Day and 
striving in Allah’s path? They are not equal in 
Allah’s sight. Allah does not guide the unjust 
people.  
20. Those w ho believe, and emigrate, and 
strive in Allah’s path with their possessions 
and their persons, are of a higher rank with 
Allah. These are the winners.  
21. Their Lord announces to them good news 
of mercy from Him, and acceptance, and gar-
dens wherein they will have lasting bliss.  
22. Abiding therein forever. With Allah is a 
great reward.  
23. O you who believe! Do not ally yourselves 
with your parents and your siblings if they 
prefer disbelief to belief. Whoever of you al-
lies himself with them —these are the wr ong-
doers.  
24. Say, “If your parents, and your children, 
and your siblings, and your spouses, and your 
relatives, and the wealth you have acquired, 
and a business you worry about, and homes 
you love, are more dear to you than Allah, 
and His Messenger, and t he struggle in His 
cause, then wait until Allah executes His 
judgment.” Allah does not guide the sinful people.  
25. Allah has given you victory in numerous 
regions; but on the day of Hunayn, your great 
number impressed you, but it availed you 
nothing; and the land, as spacious as it was, 
narrowed for you; and you turned your backs 
in retreat.  
26. Then Allah sent down His serenity upon 
His Messenger, and upon the believers; and 
He sent down troops you did not see; and He punished those who disbelieved. Such is the 
recompense of the disbelievers.  
27. Then, after that, Allah will relent towards 
whomever He wills. Allah is Forgiving and 
Merciful.  
28. O you who believe! The polytheists are pol-
luted, so let them not approach the Sacred 
Mosque after this year of th eirs. And if you 
67 
