## 8.  THE SPOILS   (al-Anfal)  
made them hear, they would have turned 
away defiantly.  
24. O you who believe! Respond to Allah and 
to the Messenger when He calls you to what 
will revive you. And k now that Allah stands 
between a man and his heart, and that to Him 
you will be gathered.  
25. And beware of discord which does not af-
flict the wrongdoers among you exclusively; 
and know that Allah is severe in retribution.  
26. And remember when you were few , op-
pressed in the land, fearing that people may capture you; but He sheltered you, and sup-ported you with His victory, and provided 
you with good things —so that you may be 
thankful.  
27. O you who believe! Do not betray Allah 
and the Messenger, nor betray your trusts, 
while you know.  
28. And know that your possessions and your 
children are a test, and that Allah possesses 
an immense reward.  
29. O you who believe! If you remain con-
scious of Allah, He will give you a criterion, 
and will remit from you your s ins, and will 
forgive you. Allah is possessor of infinite 
grace.  
30. When the disbelievers plotted against you, 
to imprison you, or kill you, or expel you. 
They planned, and Allah planned, but Allah 
is the Best of planners.  
31. And when Our revelations are  recited to 
them, they say, “We have heard. Had we wanted, we could have said the like of this; 
these are nothing but myths of the ancients.”  
32. And they said, “Our God, if this is the truth 
from You, then rain down on us stones from 
the sky, or visit us with a painful affliction.”  
33. But Allah would not punish them while 
you are amongst them. And Allah would not 
punish them as long as they seek forgiveness.  
34. Yet why should Allah not punish them, 
when they are turning others away from the Sacred Mosque, although they are not its cus-
todians? Its rightful custodians are the pious; 
but most of them do not know.  
35. Their prayer at the House was nothing but 
whistling and clapping —so taste the punish-
ment for your blasphemy.  
36. Those who disbelieve spend their wealth to 
repel from Allah’s path. They will spend it, then it will become a source of sorrow for them, and then they will be defeated. Those 
who disbelieve will be herded into Hell.  
37. That Allah may distinguish the bad from 
the good, and heap t he bad on top of one an-
other, and pile them together, and throw 
them in Hell. These are the losers.  
38. Say to those who disbelieve: if they desist, 
their past will be forgiven. But if they per-
sist—the practice of the ancients has passed 
away.  
39. Fight th em until there is no more persecu-
tion, and religion becomes exclusively for Al-lah. But if they desist —Allah is Seeing of what 
they do.  
40. And if they turn away, know that Allah is 
your Protector. The Best Protector, and the 
Best Supporter.  
41. And know th at whatever spoils you gain, to 
Allah belongs its fifth, and to the Messenger, 
and the relatives, and the orphans, and the poor, and to the wayfarer, provided you be-
lieve in Allah and in what We revealed to Our 
servant on the Day of Distinction, the day when the two armies met. Allah is Capable of 
everything.  
42. Recall when you were on the nearer bank, 
and they were on the further bank, and the 
caravan was below you. Had you planned for 
this meeting, you would have disagreed on 
the timing, but Allah was to carry out a pre-
determined matter, so that those who perish 
would perish by clear evidence, and those 
who survive would survive by clear evidence. 
Allah is Hearing and Knowing.  
43. Allah made them appear in your dream as 
few. Had He made them appear as many, you 
would have lost heart, and disputed in the 
64 
