## 8.  THE SPOILS   (al-Anfal)  
matter. But Allah saved the situation. He 
knows what the hearts contain.  
44. When you met, He made them appear as 
few in your eyes, and made you appear fewer 
in their eyes, so that Allah may conclude a 
pred etermined matter. To Allah all matters 
revert.  
45. O you who believe! When you meet a force, 
stand firm, and remember Allah much, so 
that you may prevail.  
46. And obey Allah and His Messenger, and do 
not dispute, lest you falter and lose your 
courage. And be steadfast. Allah is with the 
steadfast.  
47. And do not be like those who left their 
homes boastfully, showing off before the peo-
ple, and barring others from the path of Al-
lah. Allah comprehends what they do.  
48. Satan made their deeds appear good to 
them, and said, “You cannot be defeated by 
any people today, and I am at your side.” But 
when the two armies came in sight of one an-
other, he turned on his heels, and said, “I am 
innocent of you; I see what you do not see; I 
fear Allah; Allah is severe in punishment.”  
49. The hypocrites and those in whose hearts 
is sickness said, “Their religion has deluded 
these people.” But whoever puts his trust in 
Allah —Allah is Mighty and Wise.  
50. If only you could see, as the angels take 
away those who disbelieve, strik ing their 
faces and their backs: “Taste the agony of the Burning.”  
51. “That is because of what your hands have 
committed, and because Allah is not unjust to the servants.”  
52. Like the behavior of the people of Pharaoh, 
and those before them. They rejected the 
signs of Allah, so Allah seized them for their 
sins. Allah is Powerful, Severe in punishment.  
53. That is because Allah would never change 
a blessing He has bestowed on a people unless 
they change what is within themselves, and 
because Allah is Heari ng and Knowing.  54. Such was the case with the people of Phar-
aoh, and those before them. They denied the 
signs of their Lord, so We annihilated them 
for their wrongs, and We drowned the people 
of Pharaoh —they were all evildoers.  
55. The worst of creatures in Allah's view are 
those who disbelieve. They have no faith.  
56. Those of them with whom you made a 
treaty, but they violate their agreement every 
time. They are not righteous.  
57. If you confront them in battle, make of 
them a fearsome example for those who fol-
low them, that they may take heed.  
58. If you fear treachery on the part of a people, 
break off with them in a like manner. Allah 
does not like the treacherous.  
59. Let not the disbelievers assume that they 
are ahead. They will not escape.  
60. And prepare against them all the power 
you can muster, and all the cavalry you can 
mobilize, to terrify thereby Allah’s enemies 
and your enemies, and others besides them 
whom you do not know, but Allah knows 
them. Whatever you spend in Allah’s way will 
be repa id to you in full, and you will not be 
wronged.  
61. But if they incline towards peace, then in-
cline towards it, and put your trust in Allah. 
He is the Hearer, the Knower.  
62. If they intend to deceive you —Allah is suf-
ficient for you. It is He who supported  you 
with His aid, and with the believers.  
63. And He united their hearts. Had you spent 
everything on earth, you would not have 
united their hearts, but Allah united them to-
gether. He is Mighty and Wise.  
64. O prophet! Count on Allah, and on the be-
lievers  who have followed you.  
65. O prophet! Rouse the believers to battle. If 
there are twenty steadfast among you, they 
will defeat two hundred; and if there are a 
hundred of you, they will defeat a thousand 
of those who disbelieve; because they are a 
people w ho do not understand.  
65 
