## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
148. In his  absence, the people of Moses 
adopted a calf made from their ornaments —
a body which lowed. Did they not see that it 
could not speak to them, nor guide them in 
any way? They took it for worship. They were 
in the wrong.  
149. Then, when they regretted, and re alized 
that they had erred, they said, “Unless our 
Lord extends His mercy to us, and forgives 
us, we will be among the losers.”  
150. And when Moses returned to his people, 
angry and disappointed, he said, “What an 
awful thing you did in my absence. Did you  
forsake the commandments of your Lord so 
hastily?” And he threw down the tablets; and 
he took hold of his brother’s head, dragging 
him towards himself. He said, “Son of my 
mother, the people have overpowered me, and were about to kill me; so do not allow the 
enemies to gloat over me, and do not count 
me among the unjust people.”  
151. He said, “My Lord, forgive me and my 
brother, and admit us into Your mercy; for 
you are the Most Merciful of the merciful.”   
152. Those who idolized the calf have incurred 
wrath from their Lord, and humiliation in 
this life. We thus requite the innovators.  
153. As for those who commit sins, and then 
repent afterwards and believe —your Lord, 
thereafter, is Forgiving and Merciful.  
154. When the anger abated in Moses, he took 
up the tablets. In their transcript is guidance 
and mercy for those in awe of their Lord.  
155. And Moses chose from his people seventy 
men for Our appointment. When the tremor 
shook them, he said, “My Lord, had You 
willed, You could have destroyed them be-
fore,  and me too. Will you destroy us for what 
the fools among us have done? This is but 
Your test— with it You misguide whomever 
You will, and guide whomever You will. You 
are our Protector, so forgive us, and have 
mercy on us. You are the Best of Forgivers.”  
156. “And inscribe for us goodness in this 
world, and in the Hereafter. We have turned to You.” He said, “My punishment —I inflict it upon whomever I will, but My mercy en-compasses all things. I will specify it for those 
who act righteously and practice regu lar 
charity, and those who believe in Our signs.”  
157. Those who follow the Messenger, the Un-
lettered Prophet, whom they find mentioned in the Torah and the Gospel in their posses-
sion. He directs them to righteousness, and 
deters them from evil, and allows  for them all 
good things, and prohibits for them wicked-ness, and unloads the burdens and the shack-
les that are upon them. Those who believe in 
him, and respect him, and support him, and 
follow the light that came down with him —
these are the successful.  
158. Say, “O people, I am the Messenger of Al-
lah to you all —He to whom belongs the king-
dom of the heavens and the earth. There is no god but He. He gives life and causes death.” 
So believe in Allah and His Messenger, the 
Unlettered Prophet, who believes in A llah 
and His words. And follow him, that you may be guided.  
159. Among the people of Moses is a commu-
nity that guides by truth, and thereby does 
justice.  
160. We divided them into twelve tribal com-
munities. And We inspired Moses, when his 
people asked him for something to drink: “Strike the rock with your staff.” Whereupon 
twelve springs gushed from it. Each group 
recognized its drinking -place. And We 
shaded the m with clouds, and We sent down 
upon them manna and quails: “Eat of the good things We have provided for you.” They 
did not wrong Us, but they used to wrong 
their own selves.  
161. And it was said to them, “Settle this town, 
and eat therein whatever you wis h, and speak 
modestly, and enter the gate in humility —
We will forgive your sins, and will promote 
the righteous.”  
162. But the wicked among them substituted 
other words for the words given to them; so 
We sent down upon them a plague from the 
sky, because o f their wrongdoing.  
60 
