## 9.  REPENTANCE   (at-Tawbah)  
44. Those who believe in Allah and the Last 
Day do not ask you for exemption from striv-
ing wit h their possessions and their lives. Al-
lah is fully aware of the righteous.  
45. Only those who do not believe in Allah and 
the Last Day ask you for exemption. Their hearts are full of doubts, so they waver in 
their doubts.  
46. Had they wanted to mobilize, they would 
have made preparations for it; but Allah dis-
liked their participation, so he held them 
back, and it was said, “Stay behind with those 
who stay behind.”  
47. Had they mobilized with you, they would 
have added only to your difficulties, and they 
would have spread rumors in your midst, try-
ing to sow discord among you. Some of you 
are avid listeners to them. Allah is Aware of 
the wrongdoers.  
48. They tried to cause conflict before, and 
they hatched plots against you, until the truth 
prevailed, and the  command of Allah became 
evident —in spite of their dislike.  
49. Among them is he who says, “Excuse me, 
and do not trouble me.” In fact, they sunk into trouble. In fact, Hell will engulf the dis-
believers.  
50. If something good happens to you, it up-
sets them ; and if a calamity befalls you, they 
say, “We took our precautions in advance,” and they depart, happy.  
51. Say, “Nothing will happen to us except 
what Allah has ordained for us; He is our Pro-
tector.” In Allah let the faithful put their trust.  
52. Say, “A re you expecting for us anything 
other than one of the two excellences? As for us: we are expecting that Allah will afflict you 
with a punishment from Himself, or at our 
hands. So wait, we are waiting with you.”  
53. Say, “Whether you spend willingly or un-
willingly, it will not be accepted from you. 
You are evil people.”  
54. What prevents the acceptance of their con-
tributions is nothing but the fact that they 
disbelieved in Allah and His Messenger, and that they do not approach the prayer except 
lazily, and that they do not spend except 
grudgingly.  
55. Let neither their possessions nor their chil-
dren impress you. Allah intends to torment them through them in this worldly life, and 
that their souls depart while they are disbe-
lievers.  
56. They swear by Allah th at they are of you. 
But they are not of you. They are divisive peo-
ple. 
57. Were they to find a shelter, or a cave, or a 
hideout, they would go to it, rushing.  
58. And among them are those who criticize 
you in regard to charities. If they are given 
some of it, they become pleased; but if they 
are not given any, they grow resentful.  
59. If only they were content with what Allah 
and His Messenger have given them, and 
said, “Allah is sufficient for us; Allah will give 
us of His bounty, and so will His Messenger ; 
to Allah we eagerly turn.”  
60. Charities are for the poor, and the desti-
tute, and those who administer them, and for 
reconciling hearts, and for freeing slaves, and for those in debt, and in the path of Allah, and 
for the traveler in need —an obligation f rom 
Allah. Allah is All -Knowing, Most Wise.  
61. And among them are those who insult the 
Prophet, and say, “He is all ears.” Say, “He lis-tens for your own good. He believes in Allah, 
and trusts the believers, and is mercy for 
those of you who believe.” Thos e who insult 
the Messenger of Allah will have a painful 
penalty.  
62. They swear to you by Allah to please you. 
But it is more proper for them to please Allah 
and His Messenger, if they are believers.  
63. Do they not know that whoever opposes 
Allah and His Messenger, will have the Fire 
of Hell, abiding in it forever? That is the su-
preme disgrace.  
64. The hypocrites worry lest a chapter may be 
revealed about them, informing them of what 
69 
