## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
163. Ask them about the town by the sea, when 
they violated the Sabbath. When they ob-
served the Sabbath, their fish would come to 
them abundantly. But when they violated the 
Sabbath, their fish would not come to them. 
Thus We tried them  because they disobeyed.  
164. And when a group of them said, “Why do 
you counsel a people whom Allah will anni-
hilate, or punish with a severe punishment?” 
They said, “As an excuse to your Lord, and so 
that they may become righteous.”  
165. Then, when they neglected what they were 
reminded of, We saved those who prohibited 
evil, and We seized those who did wrong with 
a terrible punishment, because of their sinful-
ness.  
166. Then, when they rebelled against the com-
mands to refrain, We said to them, “Be des-
picable apes.”  
167. Your Lord has announced that, He would 
send against them, until the Day of Resurrec-
tion, those who would inflict terrible suffer-
ing upon them. Your Lord is swift in retribu-
tion, yet He is Forgiving and Merciful.  
168. And We scattered them i nto communities 
on earth. Some of them righteous, and some 
of them short of that. And We tested them with fortunes and misfortunes, so that they may return.  
169. They were succeeded by generations who 
inherited the Scripture and chose the materi-
als of this  world, saying, “We will be for-
given.” And should similar materials come their way, they would again seize them. Did 
they not make a covenant to uphold the 
Scripture, and to not say about Allah except 
the truth? Did they not study its contents? But the Hom e of the Hereafter is better for 
the cautious; will you not understand?  
170. Those who adhere to the Scripture, and 
practice prayer —We will not waste the re-
ward of the reformers.  
171. And when We suspended the mountain 
over them, as if it was an umbrella, and they 
thought it would fall on them: “Hold fast to what We have given you, and remember what 
it contains, so that you may be saved.”  
172. And when Your Lord summoned the de-
scendants of Adam, and made them testify 
about themselves. “Am I not your Lord?” 
They said, “Yes, we testify.” Thus you cannot 
say on the Day of Resurrection, “We were un-
aware of this.”  
173. Nor can you Say, “Our ancestors practiced 
idolatry before; and we are their descendants 
who came after them; will you destroy us for 
what the fals ifiers did?”  
174. We thus elaborate the revelations, so that 
they may return.  
175. And relate to them the story of him to 
whom We delivered Our signs, but he de-
tached himself from them, so Satan went af-
ter him, and he became one of the perverts.  
176. Had W e willed, We could have elevated 
him through them; but he clung to the 
ground, and followed his desires. His meta-phor is that of a dog: if you chase it, it pants; 
and if you leave it alone, it pants. Such is the 
metaphor of the people who deny Our signs. 
So tell the tale, so that they may ponder.  
177. Evil is the metaphor of the people who re-
ject Our signs and wrong themselves.  
178. Whomever Allah guides is the guided one. 
And whomever He sends astray —these are 
the losers.  
179. We have destined for Hell mul titudes of 
jinn and humans. They have hearts with 
which they do not understand. They have eyes with which they do not see. They have 
ears with which they do not hear. These are 
like cattle. In fact, they are further astray. 
These are the heedless.  
180. To Allah belong the Most Beautiful 
Names, so call Him by them, and disregard 
those who blaspheme His names. They will 
be repaid for what they used to do.  
181. Among those We created is a commu-
nity—they guide by truth, and do justice 
thereby.  
61 
