## 9.  REPENTANCE   (at-Tawbah)  
fear poverty, Allah will enrich you from His 
grace, if He wills. Allah is Aware and Wise.  
29. Fight those who do not believe in Allah, 
nor in the Last Day, nor forbid what Allah 
and His Messenger have forbidden, nor abide 
by the religion o f truth— from among those 
who received the Scripture —until they pay 
the due tax, willingly or unwillingly.  
30. The Jews said, “Ezra is the son of Allah,” 
and the Christians said, “The Messiah is the 
son of Allah.” These are their statements, out 
of their mouths. They emulate the statements 
of those who blasphemed before. May Allah 
assail them! How deceived they are!  
31. They have taken their rabbis and their 
priests as lords instead of Allah, as well as the 
Messiah son of Mary. Although they were 
commanded t o worship none but The One 
God. There is no god except He. Glory be to 
Him; High above what they associate with 
Him.  
32. They want to extinguish Allah’s light with 
their mouths, but Allah refuses except to 
complete His light, even though the disbe-lievers d islike it.  
33. It is He who sent His Messenger with the 
guidance and the religion of truth, in order to 
make it prevail over all religions, even though 
the idolaters dislike it.  
34. O you who believe! Many of the rabbis and 
priests consume people's wealth illicitly, and 
hinder from Allah’s path. Those who hoard 
gold and silver, and do not spend them in Al-
lah’s cause, inform them of a painful punish-
ment.  
35. On the Day when they will be heated in the 
Fire of Hell, then their foreheads, and their 
sides, and t heir backs will be branded with 
them: “This is what you hoarded for your-
selves; so taste what you used to hoard.”  
36. The number of months, according to Al-
lah, is twelve months —in the decree of Al-
lah—since the Day He created the heavens 
and the earth, of w hich four are sacred. This 
is the correct religion. So do not wrong your-
selves during them. And fight the polytheists collectively, as they fight you collectively, and 
know that Allah is with the righteous.  
37. Postponement is an increase in disbelief —
by which those who disbelieve are led astray. 
They allow it one year, and forbid it another 
year, in order to conform to the number 
made sacred by Allah, thus permitting what 
Allah has forbidden. The evil of their deeds seems good to them. Allah does not guid e the 
disbelieving people.  
38. O you who believe! What is the matter with 
you, when it is said to you, “Mobilize in the 
cause of Allah,” you cling heavily to the 
earth? Do you prefer the present life to the 
Hereafter? The enjoyment of the present life, 
com pared to the Hereafter, is only a little.  
39. Unless you mobilize, He will punish you 
most painfully, and will replace you with an-
other people, and you will not harm Him at 
all. Allah has power over all things.  
40. If you do not help him, Allah has already  
helped him, when those who disbelieved ex-
pelled him, and he was the second of two in the cave. He said to his friend, “Do not worry, 
Allah is with us.” And Allah made His tran-
quility descend upon him, and supported 
him with forces you did not see, and mad e the 
word of those who disbelieved the lowest, 
while the Word of Allah is the Highest. Allah 
is Mighty and Wise.  
41. Mobilize, light or heavy, and strive with 
your possessions and your lives in the cause 
of Allah. That is better for you, if you only 
knew.  
42. Had the gain been immediate, and the 
journey shorter, they would have followed 
you; but the distance seemed too long for them. Still they swear by Allah: “Had we been 
able, we would have marched out with you.” 
They damn their own souls, and Allah know s 
that they are lying.  
43. May Allah pardon you! Why did you give 
them permission before it became clear to you who are the truthful ones, and who are 
the liars?  
68 
