## 7.  THE ELEVATIONS   (al-A’raf)  
182. As for those  who reject Our messages, We 
will gradually lead them from where they do 
not know.  
183. And I will encourage them. My plan is 
firm.  
184. Do they not think? There is no madness in 
their friend. He is but a plain warner.  
185. Have they not observed the gover nment of 
the heavens and the earth, and all the things that Allah created, and that their time may have drawn near? Which message, besides 
this, will they believe in?  
186. Whomever Allah misguides has no guide. 
And He leaves them blundering in their 
transg ression.  
187. They ask you about the Hour, “When will 
it come?” Say, “Knowledge of it rests with my 
Lord. None can reveal its coming except He. It weighs heavily on the heavens and the 
earth. It will not come upon you except sud-
denly.” They ask you as if you are responsible 
for it. Say, “Knowledge of it rests with Allah,” but most people do not know.  
188. Say, “I have no control over any benefit or 
harm to myself, except as Allah wills. Had I 
known the future, I would have acquired 
much good, and no harm would have 
touched me. I am only a warner, and a herald 
of good news to a people who believe.”  
189. It is He who created you from a single per-
son, and made from it its mate, that he may 
find comfort with her. Then, when he has covered her, she conceives a light load, and 
she carries it around. But when she has grown heavy, they pray to Allah their Lord, “if You 
give us a good child, we will be among the 
thankful.”  
190. But when He has given them a good child, 
they attribute partners to Him in what He has 
given them. Allah is exalted above what they 
associate.  
191. Do they idolize those who create nothing, 
and are themselves created?  
192. And can neither help them, nor help their 
own selves?  193. And if you invite them to guidance, they 
will not follow you. I t is the same for you, 
whether you invite them, or remain silent.  
194. Those you call upon besides Allah are 
servants like you. So call upon them, and let 
them answer you, if you are truthful.  
195. Do they have feet with which they walk? 
Or do they have ha nds with which they 
strike? Or do they have eyes with which they 
see? Or do they have ears with which they 
hear? Say, “Call upon your partners, then plot 
against me, and do not wait.”  
196. “My Master is Allah, He Who sent down 
the Book, and He takes care of the righteous.”  
197. Those you call upon besides Him cannot 
help you, nor can they help themselves.  
198. And if you call them to guidance, they will 
not hear. And you see them looking at you, yet they do not see.  
199. Be tolerant, and command decency, an d 
avoid the ignorant.  
200. And when a suggestion from Satan assails 
you, take refuge with Allah. He is Hearing and Knowing.  
201. Those who are righteous —when an im-
pulse from Satan strikes them, they remind themselves, and immediately see clearly.  
202. But their brethren lead them relentlessly 
into error, and they never stop short.  
203. If you do not produce a miracle for them, 
they say, “Why don’t you improvise one.” 
Say, “I only follow what is inspired to me from my Lord.” These are insights from your 
Lord , and guidance, and mercy, for a people 
who believe.  
204. When the Quran is recited, listen to it, and 
pay attention, so that you may experience 
mercy.  
205. And remember your Lord within yourself, 
humbly and fearfully, and quietly, in the morning and the e vening, and do not be of 
the neglectful.  
206. Those who are in the presence of your 
Lord are not too proud to worship Him. They 
62 
