## 9.  REPENTANCE   (at-Tawbah)  
not venture out in the heat. ” Say, “The Fire of 
Hell is much hotter, if they only understood.”  
82. Let them laugh a little, and weep much; in 
recompense for what they used to earn.  
83. If Allah brings you back to a party of them, 
and they ask your permission to go out, say, 
“You will not go out with me, ever, nor will 
you ever fight an enemy with me. You were 
content to sit back the first time, so sit back 
with those who stay behind.”  
84. You are never to pray over anyone of them 
who dies, nor are you to stand at his grave-
side. They rejected Allah and His Messenger, 
and died while they were sinners.  
85. Do not let their possessions and their chil-
dren impress you. Allah desires to torment them through them in this world, and their 
souls expire while they are disbelievers.  
86. When a ch apter is revealed, stating: “Be-
lieve in Allah and strive with His Messenger,” 
the prominent among them ask you for ex-emption. They say, “Allow us to stay with 
those who stay behind.”  
87. They prefer to be with those who stay be-
hind. Their hearts were seale d, so they do not 
understand.  
88. But the Messenger and those who believe 
with him struggle with their possessions and 
their lives. These have deserved the good 
things. These are the successful.  
89. Allah has prepared for them gardens be-
neath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide forever. That is the great victory.  
90. Some of the Desert- Arabs came to make 
excuses, asking to be granted exemption, 
while those who were untrue to Allah and His 
Messenger stayed behind. A painful punish-
ment will afflict tho se among them who dis-
believed.  
91. There is no blame on the weak, nor on the 
sick, nor on those who have nothing to give, provided they are true to Allah and His Mes-
senger. In no way can the righteous be 
blamed. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  92. Nor on those who approach you, wishing 
to ride with you, and you said, “I have noth-
ing to carry you on.” So they went away, with 
their eyes overflowing with tears, sorrowing 
for not finding the means to spend.  
93. But blame is on those who ask you for ex-
emption, although they are rich. They are 
content to be with those who stay behind. Al-
lah has sealed their hearts, so they do not know.  
94. They present excuses to you when you re-
turn to them. Say, “Do not offer excuses; we 
do not trust you; Allah has informed us of 
you. And Allah will watch your actions, and 
so will the Messenger; then you will be re-
turned to the Knower of the Invisible and the 
Visible, and He will inform you of what you 
used to do.”  
95. They will swear to you by Allah, when you 
return to them, tha t you may leave them 
alone. So leave them alone. They are a dis-
grace, and their destiny is Hell; a reward for 
what they used to earn.  
96. They will swear to you that you may accept 
them. But even if you accept them, Allah does 
not accept the wicked people.  
97. The Desert -Arabs are the most steeped in 
disbelief and hypocrisy, and the most likely to 
ignore the limits that Allah revealed to His 
Messenger. Allah is Knowing and Wise.  
98. And among the Desert -Arabs are those 
who consider their contribution to be a fine. 
And they wait for a reversal of your fortunes. 
Upon them will fall the cycle of misfortune. 
Allah is Hearing and Knowing.  
99. Yet among the Desert -Arabs are those who 
believe in Allah and the Last Day, and con-
sider their contribution to be a means to-wards Allah, and the prayers of the Messen-
ger. Surely it will draw them closer, and Allah 
will admit them into His mercy. Allah is For-
giving and Compassionate.  
100. The Pioneers —The first of the Migrants 
and the Supporters, and those who followed 
them in  righteousness. Allah is pleased with 
them, and they are pleased with Him. He has 
71 
