## 9.  REPENTANCE   (at-Tawbah)  
prepared for them Gardens beneath which 
rivers flow, where they will abide forever. 
That is the sublime triumph.  
101. Among the Desert -Arabs around you 
there are some hypocri tes, and among the in-
habitants of Medina too. They have become 
adamant in hypocrisy. You do not know 
them, but We know them. We will punish 
them twice; then they will be returned to a se-vere torment.  
102. Others have confessed their sins, having 
mixed good  deeds with bad deeds. Perhaps 
Allah will redeem them. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
103. Receive contributions from their wealth, 
to purify them and sanctify them with it; and 
pray for them. Your prayer is comfort for 
them. Allah is Hearing and Knowing . 
104. Do they not know that Allah accepts the 
repentance of His servants, and that He re-
ceives the contributions, and that Allah is the 
Acceptor of Repentance, the Merciful?  
105. Say, “Work. Allah will see your work, and 
so will His Messenger, and the bel ievers. 
Then you will be returned to the Knower of 
secrets and declarations, and He will inform 
you of what you used to do.”  
106. Others are held in suspense, awaiting Al-
lah’s decree, as to whether He will punish 
them, or accept their repentance. Allah is 
Aware and Wise.  
107. Then there are those who establish a 
mosque to cause harm, and disbelief, and dis-
unity among the believers, and as an outpost 
for those who fight Allah and His Messenger. 
They will swear: “Our intentions are nothing 
but good.” But Alla h bears witness that they 
are liars.  
108. Do not stand in it, ever. A mosque 
founded upon piety from the first day is wor-
thier of your standing in it. In it are men who 
love to be purified. Allah loves those who pu-
rify themselves.  
109. Is he who founds his  structure upon piety 
and acceptance from Allah better, or he who 
founds his structure on the brink of a cliff that is about to tumble, so it tumbles with 
him into the Fire of Hell? Allah does not 
guide the unjust people.  
110. The structure which they buil t will remain 
questionable in their hearts, until their hearts 
are stopped. Allah is Knowing and Wise.  
111. Allah has purchased from the believers 
their lives and their properties in exchange 
for Paradise. They fight in Allah’s way, and 
they kill and get k illed. It is a promise binding 
on Him in the Torah, and the Gospel, and the Quran. And who is more true to his promise 
than Allah? So rejoice in making such an ex-
change —that is the supreme triumph.  
112. Those who repent, those who worship, 
those who praise , those who journey, those 
who kneel, those who bow down, those who 
advocate righteousness and forbid evil, and 
those who keep Allah’s limits —give good 
news to the believers.  
113. It is not for the Prophet and those who be-
lieve to ask forgiveness for the p olytheists, 
even if they are near relatives, after it has be-come clear to them that they are people of 
Hellfire.  
114. Abraham asked forgiveness for his father 
only because of a promise he had made to him. But when it became clear to him that he 
was an enem y of Allah, he disowned him. 
Abraham was kind and clement.  
115. Allah would never lead a people astray, af-
ter He had guided them, until He makes clear 
to them what they should guard against. Al-
lah has knowledge of all things.  
116. To Allah belongs the domi nion of the 
heavens and the earth. He gives life, and He 
causes death. And besides Allah, you have 
neither protector, nor supporter.  
117. Allah has redeemed the Prophet, and the 
Emigrants, and the Supporters —those who 
followed him in the hour of difficulty —after 
the hearts of some of them almost swerved. 
Then He pardoned them. He is Kind towards 
them, Compassionate.  
118. Also towards the three who were left be-
hind. Then, when the earth, as vast as it is, 
72 
