## 10.  JONAH   (Yunus)  
denied the meeting with Allah will be the los-
ers. They were not guided.  
46. Whether We show you some of what We 
promise them, or take you, to Us is th eir re-
turn. Allah is witness to everything they do.  
47. Every community has a messenger. When 
their messenger has come, judgment will be 
passed between them with fairness, and they 
will not be wronged.  
48. And they say, “When will this promise be 
fulfilled , if you are truthful?”  
49. Say, “I have no power to harm or benefit 
myself, except as Allah wills. To every nation 
is an appointed time. Then, when their time arrives, they can neither postpone it by one 
hour, nor advance it.  
50. Say, “Have you considered ? If His punish-
ment overtakes you by night or by day, what 
part of it will the guilty seek to hasten?”  
51. “Then, when it falls, will you believe in it? 
Now? When before you tried to hasten it?”  
52. Then it will be said to those who did wrong, 
“Taste the t orment of eternity. Will you be re-
warded except for what you used to do?”  
53. And they inquire of you, “Is it true?” Say, 
“Yes, by my Lord, it is true, and you cannot evade it.”  
54. Had every soul which had done wrong pos-
sessed everything on earth, it woul d offer it as 
a ransom. They will hide the remorse when 
they witness the suffering, and it will be 
judged between them equitably, and they will 
not be wronged.  
55. Assuredly, to Allah belongs everything in 
the heavens and the earth. Assuredly, the 
promise of Allah is true. But most of them do 
not know.  
56. He gives life and causes death, and to Him 
you will be returned.  
57. O people! There has come to you advice 
from your Lord, and healing for what is in the 
hearts, and guidance and mercy for the be-
lievers.  58. Say, “In Allah’s grace and mercy let them 
rejoice. That is better than what they hoard.”  
59. Say, “Have you considered the sustenance 
Allah has sent down for you, some of which 
you made unlawful, and some lawful?” Say, 
“Did Allah give you permission, or do you 
fabricate lies and attribute them to Allah?”  
60. What will they think —those who fabricate 
lies and attribute them to Allah— on the Day 
of Resurrection? Allah is bountiful towards 
the people, but most of them do not give 
thanks.  
61. You do not get into any situation, nor do 
you recite any Quran, nor do you do any-
thing, but We are watching over you as you 
undertake it. Not even the weight of an atom, 
on earth or in the sky, escapes your Lord, nor 
is there anything smaller or larger, but is in a 
clear  record.  
62. Unquestionably, Allah’s friends have noth-
ing to fear, nor shall they grieve.  
63. Those who believe and are aware.  
64. For them is good news in this life, and in 
the Hereafter. There is no alteration to the 
words of Allah. That is the supreme triumph.  
65. And let not their sayings dishearten you. 
All power is Allah’s. He is the Hearer, the 
Knower.  
66. Certainly, to Allah belongs everyone in the 
heavens and everyone on earth. Those who invoke other than Allah do not follow part-
ners; they follow o nly assumptions, and they 
only guess.  
67. It is He who made the night for your rest, 
and the daylight for visibility. Surely in that 
are signs for people who listen.  
68. And they said, “Allah has taken a son.” Be 
He glorified. He is the Self -Sufficient. His is 
everything in the heavens and everything on 
earth. Do you have any proof for this? Or are 
you saying about Allah what you do not 
know?  
69. Say, “Those who fabricate lies about Allah 
will not succeed.”  
76 
