## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
119. We have sent you with the truth— bring-
ing good news, and giving warnings. You will 
not be questioned abo ut the inmates of Hell.  
120. The Jews and the Christians will not ap-
prove of you, unless you follow their creed. 
Say, “Allah’s guidance is the guidance.” 
Should you follow their desires, after the 
knowledge that has come to you, you will 
have in Allah neit her guardian nor helper.  
121. Those to whom We have given the Scrip-
ture follow it, as it ought to be followed —
these believe in it. But as for those who reject 
it—these are the losers.  
122. O Children of Israel! Remember My bless-
ing which I bestowed upon you, and that I have favored you over all people.  
123. And beware of a Day when no soul will 
avail another soul in any way, and no ransom 
will be accepted from it, and no intercession 
will benefit it, and they will not be helped.  
124. And when his Lord teste d Abraham with 
certain words, and he fulfilled them. He said, 
“I am making you a leader of humanity.” He 
said, “And my descendants?” He said, “My 
pledge does not include the wrongdoers.”  
125. And We made the House a focal point for 
the people, and a sanctu ary. Use the shrine of 
Abraham as a place of prayer. And We com-
missioned Abraham and Ishmael, “Sanctify 
My House for those who circle around it, and 
those who seclude themselves in it, and those 
who kneel and prostrate.”  
126. When Abraham said, “O My Lord,  make 
this a peaceful land, and provide its people 
with fruits —whoever of them believes in Al-
lah and the Last Day.” He said, “And whoever 
disbelieves, I will give him a little enjoyment, 
then I will consign him to the punishment of 
the Fire; how miserable the destiny!”  
127. As Abraham raises the foundations of the 
House, together with Ishmael, “Our Lord, ac-
cept it from us, You are the Hearer, the 
Knower.  
128. Our Lord, and make us submissive to You, 
and from our descendants a community sub-
missive to You. And show us our rites, and accept our repentance. You are the Acceptor 
of Repentance, the Merciful.  
129. Our Lord, and raise up among them a 
messenger, of themselves, who will recite to 
them Your revelations, and teach them the 
Book and wisdom, and purify them. You are the Almighty, the Wise.”  
130. Who would forsake the religion of Abra-
ham, except he who fools himself? We chose 
him in this world, and in the Hereafter he will 
be among the righteous.  
131. When his Lord said to him, “Submit!” He 
said, “I have  submitted to the Lord of the 
Worlds.”  
132. And Abraham exhorted his sons, and Ja-
cob, “O my sons, Allah has chosen this reli-gion for you, so do not die unless you have 
submitted.”  
133. Or were you witnesses when death ap-
proached Jacob, and he said to his s ons, 
“What will you worship after Me?” They said, 
“We will worship your God, and the God of 
your fathers, Abraham, Ishmael, and Isaac; 
One God; and to Him we submit.”  
134. That was a community that has passed; for 
them is what they have earned, and for you  is 
what you have earned; and you will not be questioned about what they used to do.  
135. And they say, “Be Jews or Christians, and 
you will be guided.” Say, “Rather, the religion 
of Abraham, the Monotheist; he was not an 
idolater.”  
136. Say, “We believe i n Allah; and in what was 
revealed to us; and in what was revealed to 
Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and Jacob, 
and the Patriarchs; and in what was given to 
Moses and Jesus; and in what was given to the 
prophets —from their Lord. We make no dis-
tinction bet ween any of them, and to Him we 
surrender.”  
137. If they believe in the same as you have be-
lieved in, then they have been guided. But if 
they turn away, then they are in schism. Allah will protect you against them; for He is the 
Hearer, the Knower.  
7 
