## 11.  HUD   (Hud ) 
6. There is no  moving creature on earth but its 
sustenance depends on Allah. And He knows 
where it lives and where it rests. Everything is 
in a Clear Book.  
7. It is He who created the heavens and the 
earth in six days —and His Throne was upon 
the waters —in order to test you—which of 
you is best in conduct. And if you were to say, 
“You will be resurrected after death,” those 
who disbelieve would say, “This is nothing 
but plain witchcraft.”  
8. And if We postponed their punishment un-
til a stated time, they would say, “What h olds 
it back?” On the Day when it reaches them, it 
will not be averted from them, and what they 
used to ridicule will besiege them.  
9. If We give the human being a taste of mercy 
from Us, and then withdraw it from him, he 
becomes despairing and ungrateful.  
10. And if We give him a taste of prosperity, 
after some adversity has afflicted him, he will 
say, “Troubles have gone away from me.” He 
becomes excited and proud.  
11. Except those who are patient and do good 
deeds —these will have forgiveness and a 
great reward.  
12. Perhaps you wish to disregard some of 
what is revealed to you, and you may be 
stressed because of it, since they say, “If only 
a treasure was sent down to him, or an angel 
came with him.” You are only a warner, and 
Allah is Responsible for all things.  
13. Or do they say, “He invented it?” Say, 
“Then produce ten chapters like it, invented, 
and call upon whomever you can, besides Al-
lah, if you are truthful.”  
14. But if they fail to answer you, know that it 
was revealed with Allah’s knowledge, and 
that there is no god but He. Will you then 
submit?  
15. Whoever desires the worldly life and its 
glitter —We will fully recompense them for 
their deeds therein, and therein they will not be defrauded.  16. These— they will have nothing but the Fire 
in the Here after. Their deeds are in vain 
therein, and their works are null.  
17. Is he who possesses a clear proof from his 
Lord, recited by a witness from Him, and be-
fore it the Book of Moses, a guide and a 
mercy? These believe in it. But whoever defies 
it from amon g the various factions, the Fire is 
his promise. So have no doubt about it. It is 
the truth from your Lord, but most people do 
not believe.  
18. Who does greater wrong than he who fab-
ricates lies about Allah? These will be pre-
sented before their Lord, and t he witnesses 
will say, “These are they who lied about their 
Lord.” Indeed, the curse of Allah is upon the 
wrongdoers.  
19. Those who hinder others from the path of 
Allah, and seek to make it crooked; and re-
garding the Hereafter, they are in denial.  
20. Thes e will not escape on earth, and they 
have no protectors besides Allah. The pun-
ishment will be doubled for them. They have 
failed to hear, and they have failed to see.  
21. Those are the ones who lost their souls, and 
what they had invented has strayed away from them.  
22. Without a doubt, in the Hereafter, they will 
be the biggest losers.  
23. As for those who believe and do good 
deeds, and humble themselves before their 
Lord —these are the inhabitants of Paradise, 
where they will abide forever.  
24. The parable  of the two groups is that of the 
blind and the deaf, and the seeing and the hearing. Are they equal in comparison? Will 
you not reflect?  
25. We sent Noah to his people, “I am to you a 
clear warner.”  
26. “That you shall worship none but Allah. I 
fear for y ou the agony of a painful Day.”  
27. The notables who disbelieved among his 
people said, “We see in you nothing but a 
man like us, and we see that only the worst 
79 
