## 10.  JONAH   (Yunus)  
6. In the alternation of night and day, and in 
what Allah created in the heavens and the 
earth, are signs for people who are aware.  
7. Those who do not hope to meet Us, and are 
content with the worldly life, and are at ease 
in it, and those who pay no heed to Our signs.  
8. These —their dwelling is the Fire— on ac-
count of what they used to do.  
9. As for those who believe and do good deeds, 
their Lord guides them in their faith. Rivers 
will flow beneath them in the Gardens of 
Bliss.  
10. Their call therein is, “Glo ry be to You, our 
God.” And their greeting therein is, “Peace.” 
And the last of their call is, “Praise be to Al-
lah, Lord of the Worlds.”  
11. If Allah were to accelerate the ill for the 
people, as they wish to accelerate the good, 
their term would have been  fulfilled. But We 
leave those who do not expect Our encounter 
to blunder in their excesses.  
12. Whenever adversity touches the human 
being, he prays to Us —reclining on his side, 
or sitting, or standing. But when We have re-
lieved his adversity from him, he goes away, 
as though he had never called on Us for trou-
ble that had afflicted him. Thus the deeds of 
the transgressors appear good to them.  
13. We destroyed generations before you when 
they did wrong. Their messengers came to 
them with clear signs, but th ey would not be-
lieve. Thus We requite the sinful people.  
14. Then We made you successors on earth af-
ter them, to see how you would behave.  
15. And when Our clear revelations are recited 
to them, those who do not hope to meet Us 
say, “Bring a Quran other than this, or change it.” Say, “It is not for me to change it of my 
own accord. I only follow what is revealed to 
me. I fear, if I disobeyed my Lord, the tor-
ment of a terrible Day.”  
16. Say, “Had Allah willed, I would not have 
recited it to you, and He wou ld not have 
made it known to you. I have lived among you for a lifetime before it. Do you not un-
derstand?”  
17. Who does greater wrong than someone 
who fabricates lies about Allah, or denies His 
revelations? The guilty will never prosper.  
18. And they worship, besides Allah, what nei-
ther harms them nor benefits them. And they 
say, “These are our intercessors with Allah.” 
Say, “Are you informing Allah about what He 
does not know in the heavens or on earth?” 
Glorified be He, High above the associations 
they ma ke. 
19. Mankind was a single community; then 
they differed. Were it not for a prior decree 
from your Lord, the matters over which they 
had disputed would have been settled.  
20. And they say, “If only a miracle was sent 
down to him from his Lord.” Say, “The  realm 
of the unseen belongs to Allah; so wait, I am waiting with you.”  
21. When We make the people taste mercy af-
ter some adversity has touched them, they 
begin to scheme against Our revelations. Say, 
“Allah is swifter in scheming.” Our envoys 
are writing  down what you scheme.  
22. It is He who transports you across land and 
sea. Until, when you are on ships, sailing in a 
favorable wind, and rejoicing in it, a raging wind arrives. The waves surge over them 
from every side, and they realize that they are 
besieged. Thereupon they pray to Allah, pro-
fessing sincere devotion to Him: “If You save 
us from this, we will be among the apprecia-
tive.”  
23. But then, when He has saved them, they 
commit violations on earth, and oppose jus-
tice. O people! Your violations are against 
your own souls. It is the enjoyment of the 
present life. Then to Us is your return, and 
We will inform you of what you used to do.  
24. The likeness of the present life is this: water 
that We send down from the sky is absorbed 
by the plants of the earth, from which the 
people and the animals eat. Until, when the 
earth puts on its fine appearance, and is beau-
tified, and its inhabitants think that they have 
74 
