## 10.  JONAH   (Yunus)  
mastered it, Our command descends upon it 
by night or by day, and We turn it into stub-
ble, as i f it had not flourished the day before. 
We thus clarify the revelations for people 
who reflect.  
25. Allah invites to the Home of Peace, and 
guides whomever He wills to a straight path.  
26. For those who have done good is goodness, 
and more. Neither gloom n or shame will 
come over their faces. These are the inhabit-
ants of Paradise, abiding therein forever.  
27. As for those who have earned evil deeds: a 
reward of similar evil, and shame will cover 
them. They will have no defense against Al-
lah—as if their faces  are covered with dark 
patches of night. These are the inmates of the 
Fire, abiding therein forever.  
28. On the Day when We will gather them al-
together, then say to those who ascribed part-
ners, “To your place, you and your partners.” Then We will separate between them, and 
their partners will say, “It was not us you were 
worshiping.”  
29. “Allah is sufficient witness between us and 
you. We were unaware of your worshiping 
us.” 
30. There, every soul will experience what it 
had done previously; and they will be  re-
turned to Allah, their True Master; and what they used to invent will fail them.  
31. Say, “Who provides for you from the 
heaven and the earth? And who controls the hearing and the sight? And who produces the 
living from the dead, and produces the dead 
from the living? And who governs the Or-
der?” They will say, “Allah.” Say, “Will you 
not be careful?”  
32. Such is Allah, your Lord —the True. What 
is there, beyond the truth, except falsehood? 
How are you turned away?  
33. Thus your Lord’s Word proved true 
against those who disobeyed, for they do not 
believe.  34. Say, “Can any of your partners initiate cre-
ation, and then repeat it?” Say, “Allah initi-
ates creation, and then repeats it. How are 
you so deluded?”  
35. Say, “Can any of your partners guide to the 
truth?” Say, “Allah guides to the truth. Is He 
who guides to the truth more worthy of being 
followed, or he who does not guide, unless he 
himself is guided? What is the matter with 
you? How do you judge?”  
36. Most of them follow nothing but assump-
tions; and  assumptions avail nothing against 
the truth. Allah is fully aware of what they do.  
37. This Quran could not have been produced 
by anyone other than Allah. In fact, it is a confirmation of what preceded it, and an elaboration of the Book. There is no doubt 
about it —it is from the Lord of the Universe.  
38. Or do they say, “He has forged it”? Say, 
“Then produce a single chapter like it, and call upon whomever you can, apart from Al-
lah, if you are truthful.”  
39. In fact, they deny what is beyond the limits 
of their knowledge, and whose explanation 
has not yet reached them. Thus those before 
them refused to believe. So note the conse-
quences for the wrongdoers.  
40. Among them are those who believe in it, 
and among them are those who do not be-
lieve in it. Your Lor d is fully aware of the mis-
chief -makers.  
41. If they accuse you of lying, say, “I have my 
deeds, and you have your deeds. You are quit 
of what I do, and I am quit of what you do.”  
42. And among them are those who listen to 
you. But can you make the deaf hear, even 
though they do not understand?  
43. And among them are those who look at 
you. But can you guide the blind, even 
though they do not see?  
44. Allah does not wrong the people in the 
least, but the people wrong their own selves.  
45. On the Day when H e rounds them up —as 
if they had tarried only one hour of a day —
they will recognize one another. Those who 
75 
