## 9.  REPENTANCE   (at-Tawbah)  
is in their hearts. Say, “Go on mocking; Allah 
will bring out what you fe ar.” 
65. If you ask them, they will say, “We were 
just joking and playing.” Say, “Were you 
making jokes about Allah, His revelations, 
and His Messenger?”  
66. Do not apologize. You have disbelieved af-
ter your belief. If We pardon some of you, We will punish  others, because they are guilty.  
67. The hypocrite men and hypocrite women 
are of one another. They advocate evil, and 
prohibit righteousness, and withhold their 
hands. They forgot Allah, so He forgot them. 
The hypocrites are the sinners.  
68. Allah has pr omised the hypocrite men and 
hypocrite women, and the disbelievers, the 
Fire of Hell, abiding therein forever. It is their due. And Allah has cursed them. They will 
have a lasting punishment.  
69. Like those before you. They were more 
powerful than you, and  had more wealth and 
children. They enjoyed their share, and you 
enjoyed your share, as those before you en-
joyed their share. And you indulged, as they 
indulged. It is they whose works will fail in 
this world and in the Hereafter. It is they who 
are the lo sers.  
70. Have they not heard the stories of those be-
fore them? The people of Noah, and Aad, and 
Thamood; and the people of Abraham, and 
the inhabitants of Median, and the Over-
turned Cities? Their messengers came to 
them with the clear proofs. Allah never 
wronged them, but they used to wrong their 
own selves.  
71. The believing men and believing women 
are friends of one another. They advocate vir-
tue, forbid evil, perform the prayers, practice charity, and obey Allah and His Messenger. 
These —Allah will have mercy on them. Allah 
is Noble and Wise.  
72. Allah promises the believers, men and 
women, gardens beneath which rivers flow, abiding therein forever, and fine homes in the Gardens of Eden. But approval from Al-
lah is even greater. That is the supreme 
achievem ent. 
73. O Prophet! Strive against the disbelievers 
and the hypocrites, and be stern with them. 
Their abode is Hell —what a miserable desti-
nation!  
74. They swear by Allah that they said nothing; 
but they did utter the word of blasphemy, and they renounced f aith after their submission. 
And they plotted what they could not attain. 
They were resentful only because Allah and 
His Messenger have enriched them out of His 
grace. If they repent, it would be best for 
them; but if they turn away, Allah will afflict them with a painful punishment —in this life 
and in the Hereafter —and they will have on 
earth no protector and no savior.  
75. Among them are those who promised Al-
lah: “If He gives us of His bounty, we will do-
nate and be among the upright.”  
76. But when He has given them of His bounty, 
they became stingy with it, and turned away 
in aversion.  
77. So He penalized them with hypocrisy in 
their hearts, until the Day they face Him —be-
cause they broke their promise to Allah, and because they used to lie.  
78. Do they not know that Allah knows their 
secrets and their conspiracies? And that Allah is the Knower of the unseen?  
79. Those who criticize the believers who give 
charity voluntarily, and ridicule those who 
find nothing to give except their own ef-
forts —Allah ridicule s them. They will have a 
painful punishment.  
80. Whether you ask forgiveness for them, or 
do not ask forgiveness for them —even if you 
ask forgiveness for them seventy times, Allah will not forgive them. That is because they 
disbelieved in Allah and His Mes senger. Al-
lah does not guide the immoral people.  
81. Those who stayed behind rejoiced at their 
staying behind the Messenger of Allah. And they hated to strive with their wealth and 
their lives in Allah’s way. And they said, “Do 
70 
