## 10.  JONAH   (Yunus)  
70. Some enjoyment in this world; then to Us 
is their return; then We will make them taste 
the severe punishment on account of their 
disbelief.  
71. And relate to them the story of Noah, when 
he said to his people, “O my people, if my 
presence among you and my reminding you 
of Allah’s signs is too much f or you, then in 
Allah I have put my trust. So come to a deci-
sion, you and your partners, and do not let 
the matter perplex you; then carry out your 
decision on me, and do not hold back.”  
72. “But if you turn away, I have not asked you 
for any wage. My wage  falls only on Allah, 
and I was commanded to be of those who submit.”  
73. But they denounced him, so We saved him 
and those with him in the Ark, and We made 
them successors, and We drowned those who rejected Our signs. So consider the fate of 
those who wer e warned.  
74. Then, after him, We sent messengers to 
their people. They came to them with the clear proofs, but they would not believe in an-
ything they had already rejected. Thus We set 
a seal on the hearts of the hostile.  
75. Then, after them, We sent Mos es and Aa-
ron with Our proofs to Pharaoh and his dig-
nitaries. But they acted arrogantly. They were 
sinful people.  
76. And when the truth came to them from Us, 
they said, “This is clearly sorcery.”  
77. Moses said, “Is this what you say of the 
truth when it has come to you? Is this sor-cery? Sorcerers do not succeed.”  
78. They said, “Did you come to us to divert us 
from what we found our ancestors following, 
and so that you become prominent in the 
land? We will never believe in you.”  
79. Pharaoh said, “Bring me  every experienced 
sorcerer.”  
80. And when the sorcerers came, Moses said 
to them, “Throw whatever you have to throw.”  81. And when they threw, Moses said, “What 
you produced is sorcery, and Allah will make 
it fail. Allah does not foster the efforts of the  
corrupt.”  
82. “And Allah upholds the truth with His 
words, even though the sinners detest it.”  
83. But none believed in Moses except some 
children of his people, for fear that Pharaoh 
and his chiefs would persecute them. Phar-
aoh was high and mighty in the  land. He was 
a tyrant.  
84. Moses said, “O my people, if you have be-
lieved in Allah, then put your trust in Him, if 
you have submitted.”  
85. They said, “In Allah we have put our trust. 
Our Lord, do not make us victims of the op-pressive people.”  
86. “And de liver us, by Your mercy, from the 
disbelieving people.”  
87. And We inspired Moses and his brother, 
“Settle your people in Egypt, and make your 
homes places of worship, and perform the 
prayer, and give good news to the believers.”  
88. Moses said, “Our Lord,  you have given 
Pharaoh and his chiefs splendor and wealth 
in the worldly life. Our Lord, for them to lead away from Your path. Our Lord, obliterate 
their wealth, and harden their hearts, they 
will not believe until they see the painful tor-
ment.”  
89. He sa id, “Your prayer has been answered, 
so go straight, and do not follow the path of those who do not know.”  
90. And We delivered the Children of Israel 
across the sea. Pharaoh and his troops pur-
sued them, defiantly and aggressively. Until, 
when he was about to drown, he said, “I be-
lieve that there is no god except the One the 
Children of Israel believe in, and I am of 
those who submit.”  
91. Now? When you have rebelled before, and 
been of the mischief -makers?  
92. Today We will preserve your body, so that 
you b ecome a sign for those after you. But 
most people are heedless of Our signs.  
77 
