## 11.  HUD   (Hud)  
“Peace.” Soon after, he came with a roasted 
calf. 
70. But when he saw their hands not reaching 
towards it, he became suspicious of them, 
and conceived a fear of them. They said, “Do 
not fear, we were sent to the people of Lot.”  
71. His wife was standing b y, so she laughed. 
And We gave her good news of Isaac; and af-ter Isaac, Jacob.  
72. She said, “Alas for me. Shall I give birth, 
when I am an old woman, and this, my hus-
band, is an old man? This is truly a strange 
thing.”   
73. They said, “Do you marvel at t he decree of 
Allah? The mercy and blessings of Allah are 
upon you, O people of the house. He is 
Praiseworthy and Glorious.”  
74. When Abraham's fear subsided, and the 
good news had reached him, he started plead-
ing with Us concerning the people of Lot.  
75. Abraham was gentle, kind, penitent.  
76. “O Abraham, refrain from this. The com-
mand of your Lord has come; they have in-
curred an irreversible punishment.”  
77. And when Our envoys came to Lot, he was 
anxious for them, and concerned for them. He said, “This is  a dreadful day.”  
78. And his people came rushing towards 
him—they were in the habit of committing 
sins. He said, “O my people, these are my 
daughters; they are purer for you. So fear Al-
lah, and do not embarrass me before my 
guests. Is there not one reason able man 
among you?”  
79. They said, “You know well that we have no 
right to your daughters, and you know well 
what we want.”  
80. He said, “If only I had the strength to stop 
you, or could rely on some strong support.”  
81. They said, “O Lot, we are the envo ys of 
your Lord; they will not reach you. So set out 
with your family during the cover of the 
night, and let none of you look back, except 
for your wife. She will be struck by what will strike them. Their appointed time is the 
morning. Is not the morning near?”  
82. And when Our command came about, We 
turned it upside down, and We rained down 
on it stones of baked clay.  
83. Marked from your Lord, and never far 
from the wrongdoers.  
84. And to Median, their brother Shuaib. He 
said, “O my people, worship Allah;  you have 
no god other than Him. And do not short 
measure or short weight. I see you in good 
circumstances, but I fear for you the agony of 
an encompassing Day.”  
85. “O my people! Give full measure and full 
weight, in all fairness, and do not cheat the 
people out of their rights, and do not spread 
corruption in the land.  
86. What is left by Allah is best for you, if you 
are believers. And I am not a guardian over 
you.”  
87. They said, “O Shuaib, does your prayer 
command you that we abandon what our an-cestors  worshiped, or doing with our wealth 
what we want? You are the one who is intel-
ligent and wise.”  
88. He said, “O my people, have you consid-
ered? What if I have clear evidence from my 
Lord, and He has given me good livelihood 
from Himself? I have no desire to do what I 
forbid you from doing. I desire nothing but 
reform, as far as I can. My success lies only 
with Allah. In Him I trust, and to Him I 
turn.”  
89. “O my people, let not your hostility to-
wards me cause you to suffer what was suf-
fered by the people o f Noah, or the people of 
Hud, or the people of Saleh. The people of Lot 
are not far away from you.”  
90. “And ask your Lord for forgiveness, and re-
pent to Him. My Lord is Merciful and Lov-
ing.”  
91. They said, “O Shuaib, we do not under-
stand much of what you say, and we see that 
you are weak among us. Were it not for your 
82 
