## 12.  JOSEPH   (Yusuf)  
83. He said, “Rather, your souls have contrived 
something for you. Patience is a virtue. Per-
haps Allah will bring them all back to me. He 
is the Knowing, the Wise.”  
84. Then he turned away from them, and said, 
“O my bitterness for Joseph.” And his eyes 
turned white from sorrow, and he became 
depressed.  
85. They said, “By Allah, you will not stop re-
membering Joseph, until you have ruined 
your health, or you have passed away.”  
86. He said, “ I only complain of my grief and 
sorrow to Allah, and I know from Allah what you do not know.”  
87. “O my sons, go and inquire about Joseph 
and his brother, and do not despair of Allah's 
comfort. None despairs of Allah's comfort 
except the disbelieving peopl e.” 
88. Then, when they entered into his presence, 
they said, “Mighty governor, adversity has 
befallen us, and our family. We have brought scant merchandise. But give us full measure, 
and be charitable towards us —Allah rewards 
the charitable.”  
89. He said,  “Do you realize what you did with 
Joseph and his brother, in your ignorance?”  
90. They said, “Is that you, Joseph?” He said, “I 
am Joseph, and this is my brother. Allah has 
been gracious to us. He who practices piety and patience —Allah never fails to reward the 
righteous.”  
91. They said, “By Allah, Allah has preferred 
you over us. We were definitely in the 
wrong.”  
92. He said, “There is no blame upon you to-
day. Allah will forgive you. He is the Most 
Merciful of the merciful.”  
93. “Take this shirt of mine, and lay it over my 
father’s face, and he will recover his sight. 
And bring your whole family to me.”  
94. As the caravan set out, their father said, “I 
sense the presence of Joseph, though you may 
think I am senile.”  
95. They said, “By Allah, you are still in your 
old confusion.”  96. Then, when the bearer of good news ar-
rived, he laid it over his face, and he regained 
his sight. He said, “Did I not say to you that I 
know from Allah what you do not know?”  
97. They said, “Father, pray for the forgiveness 
of ou r sins; we were indeed at fault.”  
98. He said, “I will ask my Lord to forgive you. 
He is the Forgiver, the Most Merciful.”  
99. Then, when they entered into the presence 
of Joseph, he embraced his parents, and said, “Enter Egypt, Allah willing, safe and sec ure.”  
100. And he elevated his parents on the throne, 
and they fell prostrate before him. He said, 
“Father, this is the fulfillment of my vision of long ago. My Lord has made it come true. He 
has blessed me, when he released me from 
prison, and brought you  out of the wilder-
ness, after the devil had sown conflict be-
tween me and my brothers. My Lord is Most 
Kind towards whomever He wills. He is the 
All-knowing, the Most Wise.”  
101. “My Lord, You have given me some au-
thority, and taught me some interpretation of 
events. Initiator of the heavens and the earth; 
You are my Protector in this life and in the 
Hereafter. Receive my soul in submission, 
and unite me with the righteous.”  
102. This is news from the past that We reveal 
to you. You were not present with the m when 
they plotted and agreed on a plan.  
103. But most people, for all your eagerness, are 
not believers.  
104. You ask them no wage for it. It is only a 
reminder for all mankind.  
105. How many a sign in the heavens and the 
earth do they pass by, paying no  attention to 
them?  
106. And most of them do not believe in Allah 
unless they associate others.  
107. Do they feel secure that a covering of Al-
lah’s punishment will not come upon them, 
or that the Hour will not come upon them 
suddenly, while they are unaware?  
108. Say, “This is my way; I invite to Allah, 
based on clear knowledge —I and whoever 
88 
