## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
138. Allah’s coloring. And who gives better col-
oring than Allah? “And we are devoted to 
Him.”  
139. Say, “Do you argue with us about Allah, 
when He is our Lord and your Lord, and We 
have our works, and you have your works, 
and we are sincere to Him?”  
140. Or do y ou say that Abraham, Ishmael, 
Isaac, Jacob, and the Patriarchs were Jews or 
Christians? Say, “Do you know better, or Al-
lah?” And who does greater wrong than he 
who conceals a testimony he has from Allah? 
Allah is not unaware of what you do.  
141. That was a community that has passed. To 
them is what they have earned, and to you is 
what you have earned. And you will not be 
questioned about what they used to do.  
142. The ignorant among the people will say, 
“What has turned them away from the direc-
tion of praye r they once followed?” Say, “To 
Allah belong the East and the West. He 
guides whom He wills to a straight path.”  
143. Thus We made you a moderate commu-
nity, that you may be witnesses to humanity, and that the Messenger may be a witness to 
you. We only esta blished the direction of 
prayer, which you once followed, that We 
may distinguish those who follow the Mes-
senger from those who turn on their heels. It 
is indeed difficult, except for those whom Al-
lah has guided. But Allah would never let 
your faith go to waste. Allah is Kind towards 
the people, Merciful.  
144. We have seen your face turned towards 
the heaven. So We will turn you towards a di-
rection that will satisfy you. So turn your face 
towards the Sacred Mosque. And wherever 
you may be, turn your faces t owards it. Those 
who were given the Book know that it is the Truth from their Lord; and Allah is not una-
ware of what they do.  
145. Even if you were to bring to those who 
were given the Book every proof, they would 
not follow your direction, nor are you to fol-
low their direction, nor do they follow the di-
rection of one another. And if you were to 
follow their desires, after the knowledge that has come to you, you would be in that case 
one of the wrongdoers.  
146. Those to whom We have given the Book 
recogniz e it as they recognize their own chil-
dren. But some of them conceal the truth 
while they know.  
147. The truth is from your Lord, so do not be 
a skeptic.  
148. To every community is a direction to-
wards which it turns. Therefore, race towards 
goodness. Wherever you may be, Allah will 
bring you all together. Allah is capable of eve-
rything.  
149. And wherever you come from, turn your 
face towards the Sacred Mosque. This is the 
truth from your Lord, and Allah is not heed-
less of what you do.  
150. And wherever you c ome from, turn your 
face towards the Sacred Mosque. And wher-
ever you may be, turn your faces towards it. 
So that the people may not have any argu-
ment against you —except those who do 
wrong among them. So do not fear them, but fear Me, that I may complete My  blessings 
upon you, and that you may be guided.  
151. Just as We sent to you a messenger from 
among you, who recites Our revelations to 
you, and purifies you, and teaches you the Book and wisdom, and teaches you what you did not know.  
152. So remember Me, and I will remember 
you. And thank Me, and do not be ungrate-
ful. 
153. O you who believe! Seek help through pa-
tience and prayers. Allah is with the steadfast.  
154. And do not say of those who are killed in 
the cause of Allah, “Dead.” Rather, they are alive,  but you do not perceive.  
155. We will certainly test you with some fear 
and hunger, and some loss of possessions and 
lives and crops. But give good news to the 
steadfast.  
156. Those who, when a calamity afflicts them, 
say, “To Allah we belong, and to Him we will return.”  
8 
