## 12.  JOSEPH   (Yusuf)  
19. A caravan passed by, and they sent their 
water -carrier. He lowered his bucket, and 
said, “Good news. Here is a boy.” And they 
hid him as merchandi se. But Allah was aware 
of what they did.  
20. And they sold him for a cheap price —a few 
coins —they considered him to be of little 
value.  
21. The Egyptian who bought him said to his 
wife, “Take good care of him; he may be use-
ful to us, or we may adopt him a s a son.” We 
thus established Joseph in the land, to teach 
him the interpretation of events. Allah has 
control over His affairs, but most people do 
not know.  
22. When he reached his maturity, We gave 
him wisdom and knowledge. We thus reward 
the righteous.  
23. She in whose house he was living tried to 
seduce him. She shut the doors, and said, “I am yours.” He said, “Allah forbid! He is my 
Lord. He has given me a good home. Sinners 
never succeed.”  
24. She desired him, and he desired her, had he 
not seen the p roof of his Lord. It was thus that 
We diverted evil and indecency away from him. He was one of Our loyal servants.  
25. As they raced towards the door, she tore his 
shirt from behind. At the door, they ran into 
her husband. She said, “What is the penalty 
for him who desired to dishonor your wife, 
except imprisonment or a painful punish-ment?”  
26. He said, “It was she who tried to seduce 
me.” A witness from her household sug-
gested: “If his shirt is torn from the front: 
then she has told the truth, and he is the liar.  
27. But if his shirt is torn from the back: then 
she has lied, and he is the truthful.”  
28. And when he saw that his shirt was torn 
from the back, he said, “This is a woman's 
scheme. Your scheming is serious indeed.”  
29. “Joseph, turn away from thi s. And you, 
woman, ask forgiveness for your sin; you are 
indeed in the wrong.”  30. Some ladies in the city said, “The gover-
nor's wife is trying to seduce her servant. She 
is deeply in love with him. We see she has 
gone astray.”  
31. And when she heard of th eir gossip, she in-
vited them, and prepared for them a banquet, 
and she gave each one of them a knife. She 
said, “Come out before them.” And when 
they saw him, they marveled at him, and cut 
their hands. They said, “Good Allah, this is 
not a human, this must  be a precious angel.”  
32. She said, “Here he is, the one you blamed 
me for. I did try to seduce him, but he re-
sisted. But if he does not do what I tell him to 
do, he will be imprisoned, and will be one of 
the despised.”  
33. He said, “My Lord, prison is mo re desira-
ble to me than what they call me to. Unless 
You turn their scheming away from me, I may yield to them, and become one of the ig-
norant.”  
34. Thereupon his Lord answered him, and di-
verted their scheming away from him. He is 
the Hearer, the Knower.  
35. Then it occurred to them, after they had 
seen the signs, to imprison him for a while.  
36. Two youth entered the prison with him. 
One of them said, “I see myself pressing 
wine.” The other said, “I see myself carrying 
bread on my head, from which the bird s are 
eating. Tell us their interpretation —we see 
that you are one of the righteous.”  
37. He said, “No food is served to you, but I 
have informed you about it before you have 
received it. That is some of what my Lord has taught me. I have forsaken the trad ition of 
people who do not believe in Allah; and re-
garding the Hereafter, they are deniers.”  
38. “And I have followed the faith of my fore-
fathers, Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. It is 
not for us to associate anything with Allah. 
This is by virtue of Allah’ s grace upon us and 
upon the people, but most people do not give thanks.  
39. “O My fellow inmates, are diverse lords 
better, or Allah, the One, the Supreme?”  
85 
