## 12.  JOSEPH   (Yusuf)  
them when they return to their families, and 
maybe they will come back.”  
63. When they returned to their father, they 
said, “O father, we were denied measure, but 
send our brother with us, and we will obtain 
measure. We will take care of him.”  
64. He said, “Shall I trust you with him, as I 
trusted you with his brother before? Allah is 
the Best Guardian, and He is the Most Mer-
ciful of the merciful.”  
65. And when they opened their bag gage, they 
found that their goods were returned to 
them. They said, “Father, what more do we want? Here are our goods, returned to us. We 
will provide for our family, and protect our 
brother, and have an additional camel -load. 
This is easy commerce.”  
66. He said, “I will not send him with you, un-
less you give me a pledge before Allah that you will bring him back to me, unless you get trapped.” And when they gave him their 
pledge, he said, “Allah is witness to what we 
say.”  
67. And he said, “O my sons, do no t enter by 
one gate, but enter by different gates. I cannot 
avail you anything against Allah. The deci-
sion rests only with Allah. On Him I rely, and 
on Him let the reliant rely.”  
68. And when they entered as their father had 
instructed them, it did not ava il them any-
thing against Allah; it was just a need in the 
soul of Jacob, which he carried out. He was a 
person of knowledge inasmuch as We had 
taught him, but most people do not know.  
69. And when they entered into the presence 
of Joseph, he embraced his b rother, and said, 
“I am your brother; do not be saddened by what they used to do.”  
70. Then, when he provided them with their 
provisions, he placed the drinking -cup in his 
brother’s saddlebag. Then an announcer 
called out, “O people of the caravan, you are  
thieves.”  
71. They said, as they came towards them, 
“What are you missing?”  72. They said, “We are missing the king’s gob-
let. Whoever brings it will have a camel -load; 
and I personally guarantee it.”  
73. They said, “By Allah, you know we did not 
come to c ause trouble in the land, and we are 
not thieves.”  
74. They said, “What shall be his punishment, 
if you are lying?”  
75. They said, “His punishment, if it is found 
in his bag: he will belong to you. Thus we pe-
nalize the guilty.”  
76. So he began with their b ags, before his 
brother's bag. Then he pulled it out of his 
brother’s bag. Thus We devised a plan for Jo-seph; he could not have detained his brother 
under the king’s law, unless Allah so willed. 
We elevate by degrees whomever We will; 
and above every perso n of knowledge, there 
is one more learned.  
77. They said, “If he has stolen, a brother of his 
has stolen before.” But Joseph kept it to him-self, and did not reveal it to them. He said, 
“You are in a worse situation, and Allah is 
Aware of what you allege.”  
78. They said, “O noble prince, he has a father, 
a very old man, so take one of us in his place. 
We see that you are a good person.”  
79. He said, “Allah forbid that we should arrest 
anyone except him in whose possession we 
found our property; for then we w ould be un-
just.”  
80. And when they despaired of him, they con-
ferred privately. Their eldest said, “Don’t you 
know that your father received a pledge from 
you before Allah, and in the past you failed 
with regard to Joseph? I will not leave this 
land until m y father permits me, or Allah de-
cides for me; for He is the Best of Deciders.”  
81. “Go back to your father, and say, ‘Our fa-
ther, your son has stolen. We testify only to 
what we know, and we could not have pre-
vented the unforeseen.’”  
82. “Ask the town wher e we were, and the car-
avan in which we came. We are being truth-
ful.”  
87 
