## 12.  JOSEPH   (Yusuf)  
40. “You do not worship, besides Him, except 
names you have named, you and your ances-
tors, for whi ch Allah has sent down no au-
thority. Judgment belongs to none but Allah. 
He has commanded that you worship none 
but Him. This is the right religion, but most 
people do not know.  
41. “O my fellow inmates! One of you will 
serve his master wine; while the oth er will be 
crucified, and the birds will eat from his head. 
Thus the matter you are inquiring about is 
settled.”  
42. And he said to the one he thought would 
be released, “Mention me to your master.” 
But Satan caused him to forget mentioning him to his master, so he remained in prison 
for several years.  
43. The king said, “I see seven fat cows being 
eaten by seven lean ones, and seven green spikes, and others dried up. O elders, explain 
to me my vision, if you are able to interpret 
visions.”  
44. They said, “ Jumbles of dreams, and we 
know nothing of the interpretation of 
dreams.”  
45. The one who was released said, having re-
membered after a time, “I will inform you of 
its interpretation, so send me out.”  
46. “Joseph, O man of truth, inform us con-
cerning seven f at cows being eaten by seven 
lean ones, and seven green spikes, and others 
dried up, so that I may return to the people, 
so that they may know.”  
47. He said, “You will farm for seven consecu-
tive years. But whatever you harvest, leave it 
in its spikes, exce pt for the little that you eat.”  
48. Then after that will come seven difficult 
ones, which will consume what you have 
stored for them, except for the little that you 
have preserved.  
49. Then after that will come a year that brings 
relief to the people, and  during which they 
will press.  
50. The king said, “Bring him to me.” And 
when the envoy came to him, he said, “Go back to your master, and ask him about the 
intentions of the women who cut their hands; 
my Lord is well aware of their schemes.”  
51. He said, “What was the matter with you, 
women, when you tried to seduce Joseph?” 
They said, “Allah forbid! We knew of no evil 
committed by him.” The governor’s wife then 
said, “Now the truth is out. It was I who tried 
to seduce him, and he is telling the truth.”  
52. “This is that he may know that I did not 
betray him in secret, and that Allah does not 
guide the scheming of the betrayers.”  
53. “Yet I do not claim to be innocent. The soul 
commands evil, except those on whom my 
Lord has mercy. Truly my Lord is Forgivin g 
and Merciful.”  
54. The king said, “Bring him to me, and I will 
reserve him for myself.” And when he spoke to him, he said, “This day you are with us es-
tablished and secure.”  
55. He said, “Put me in charge of the store-
houses of the land; I am honest and knowl-
edgeable.”  
56. And thus We established Joseph in the 
land, to live therein wherever he wished. We touch with Our mercy whomever We will, 
and We never waste the reward of the right-
eous.  
57. But the reward of the Hereafter is better for 
those who believ e and observed piety.  
58. And Joseph's brothers came, and entered 
into his presence. He recognized them, but they did not recognize him.  
59. When he provided them with their provi-
sions, he said, “Bring me a brother of yours 
from your father. Do you not see  that I fill up 
the measure, and I am the best of hosts?”  
60. “But if you do not bring him to me, you will 
have no measure from me, and you will not 
come near me.”  
61. They said, “We will solicit him from his fa-
ther. We will surely do.”  
62. He said to his servants, “Put their goods in 
their saddlebags; perhaps they will recognize 
86 
