## 11.  HUD   (Hud)  
knowledge of. Unless You forgive me, and 
have mercy on me, I will be one of the losers.”  
48. It was said, “O Noah, disembark with peace 
from Us; and with blessings upon you, and 
upon communities from those with you. And 
other communities We will grant prosperity, 
and then a painful torment from Us will be-
fall them.”  
49. These are some stories from the past that 
we reveal to you. Neither you, nor your peo-
ple knew them befo re this. So be patient. The 
future belongs to the pious.  
50. And to Aad, their brother Hud. He said, “O 
my people, worship Allah, you have no other god besides Him. You do nothing but invent 
lies.”  
51. “O my people, I ask you no wage for it; my 
wage lies w ith Him who originated me. Do 
you not understand?”  
52. “O my people, ask forgiveness from your 
Lord, and repent to Him. He will release the 
sky pouring down upon you, and will add 
strength to your strength. And do not turn 
away and be wicked.”  
53. They sai d, “O Hud, you did not bring us 
any evidence, and we are not about to aban-
don our gods at your word, and we are not 
believers in you.”  
54. “We only say that some of our gods have 
possessed you with evil.” He said, “I call Allah 
to witness, and you to witne ss, that I am in-
nocent of what you associate.  
55. Besides Him. So scheme against me, all of 
you, and do not hesitate.  
56. I have placed my trust in Allah, my Lord 
and your Lord. There is not a creature but He 
holds it by the forelock. My Lord is on a 
strai ght path.  
57. If you turn away, I have conveyed to you 
what I was sent to you with; and my Lord will 
replace you with another people, and you will not cause Him any harm. My Lord is Guard-
ian over all things.”  
58. And when Our decree came, We saved 
Hud and those who believed with him, by a mercy from Us, and We delivered them from 
a harsh punishment.  
59. That was Aad; they denied the signs of 
their Lord, and defied His messengers, and 
followed the lead of every stubborn tyrant.  
60. And they were pursued by a  curse in this 
world, and on the Day of Resurrection. In-
deed, Aad blasphemed against their Lord —so 
away with Aad, the people of Hud.  
61. And to Thamood, their brother Saleh. He 
said, “O my people, worship Allah, you have no god other than Him. He initiated  you 
from the earth, and settled you in it. So seek 
His forgiveness, and repent to Him. My Lord 
is Near and Responsive.”  
62. They said, “O Saleh, we had hopes in you 
before this. Are you trying to prevent us from 
worshiping what our parents worship? We 
are in serious doubt regarding what you are 
calling us to.”  
63. He said, “O my people, have you consid-
ered? If I stand upon clear evidence from my 
Lord, and He has given me mercy from Him, 
who would protect me from Allah, if I diso-
beyed Him? You add nothing f or me except 
loss.”  
64. “O my people, this is the she -camel of Al-
lah, a sign for you. Let her graze on Allah’s 
land, and do not harm her, lest an imminent 
punishment overtakes you.”  
65. But they hamstrung her, and so He said, 
“Enjoy yourselves in your home s for three 
days. This is a prophecy that is infallible.”  
66. Then, when Our command came, We 
saved Saleh and those who believed with him, 
by a mercy from Us, from the disgrace of that 
day. Your Lord is the Strong, the Mighty.  
67. And the Scream struck those who trans-
gressed, and they became motionless bodies in their homes.  
68. As if they had never prospered therein. In-
deed, Thamood rejected their Lord, so away 
with Thamood.  
69. Our messengers came to Abraham with 
good news. They said, “Peace.” He said,  
81 
