## 11.  HUD   (Hud)  
tribe, we would have stoned you. You are of 
no value to us.”  
92. He said, “O my people, is my tribe more 
important to you than Allah? And you have 
turned your backs on Him? My Lord com-
prehend s everything you do.”  
93. “O my people, do as you may, and so will I. 
You will know to whom will come a punish-
ment that will shame him, and who is a liar. 
So look out; I am on the lookout with you.”  
94. And when Our command came, We saved 
Shuaib and those who believed with him, by 
mercy from Us, and the Blast struck the wrongdoers, and they became motionless 
bodies in their homes.  
95. As though they never flourished therein. 
Away with Median, as was done away with 
Thamood.  
96. And We sent Moses with Our signs and a 
clear mandate.  
97. To Pharaoh and his nobles, but they fol-
lowed the command of Pharaoh, and the command of Pharaoh was not wise.  
98. He will precede his people on the Day of 
Resurrection, and will lead them into the Fire. Miserable is the place he placed them in.  
99. They were followed by a curse in this, and 
on the Day of Resurrection. Miserable is the 
path they followed.  
100. These are of the reports of the towns —We 
relate them to you. Some are still standing, 
and some have withered away.  
101. We did not wrong them, but they wronged 
themselves. Their gods, whom they invoked 
besides Allah, availed them nothing when the command of your Lord arrived. In fact, they 
added only to their ruin.  
102. Such is the grip of your Lord when He 
seizes the town s in the midst of their sins. His 
grip is most painful, most severe.  
103. In that is a sign for whoever fears the pun-
ishment of the Hereafter. That is a Day for 
which humanity will be gathered together —
that is a Day to be witnessed.  104. We only postpone i t until a predetermined 
time.  
105. On the Day when it arrives, no soul will 
speak without His permission. Some will be 
miserable, and some will be happy.  
106. As for those who are miserable, they will 
be in the Fire. They will have therein sighing 
and wail ing. 
107. Remaining therein for as long as the heav-
ens and the earth endure, except as your Lord 
wills. Your Lord is Doer of whatever He wills.  
108. And as for those who are happy, they will 
be in Paradise, remaining therein for as long 
as the heavens and the earth endure, except 
as your Lord wills —a reward without end.  
109. So be not in doubt regarding what these 
people worship. They worship only as their ancestors worshiped before. We will pay 
them their due in full, without any reduction.  
110. We gave Mo ses the Scripture, but it was 
disputed. Were it not for a prior word from 
your Lord, it would have been settled be-tween them. They are in serious doubt con-
cerning it.  
111. Your Lord will repay each one of them in 
full for their deeds. He is Aware of everyt hing 
they do.  
112. So be upright, as you are commanded, 
along with those who repented with you, and 
do not transgress. He is Seeing of everything 
you do.  
113. And do not incline towards those who do 
wrong, or the Fire may touch you; and you 
will have no pr otectors besides Allah, and 
you will not be saved.  
114. Perform the prayer at the borders of the 
day, and during the approaches of the night. The good deeds take away the bad deeds. This 
is a reminder for those who remember.  
115. And be patient. Allah will  not waste the re-
ward of the virtuous.  
116. If only there were, among the generations 
before you, people with wisdom, who spoke 
against corruption on earth —except for the 
few whom We saved. But the wrongdoers 
83 
