## 11.  HUD   (Hud)  
among us have followed you, those of imma-
ture judgment. And we see that you have no 
advantage o ver us. In fact, we think you are 
liars.”  
28. He said, “O my people, Have you consid-
ered? If I stand on clear evidence from my Lord, and He has given me a mercy from 
Himself, but you were blind to it, can we 
compel you to accept it, even though you dis-
like it?” 
29. “O my people! I ask of you no money for it. 
My reward lies only with Allah. And I am not 
about to dismiss those who believed; they will 
surely meet their Lord. And I see that you are 
ignorant people.”  
30. “O my people! Who will support me 
against  Allah, if I dismiss them? Will you not 
give a thought?”  
31. “I do not say to you that I possess the treas-
ures of Allah, nor do I know the future, nor 
do I say that I am an angel. Nor do I say of 
those who are despicable in your eyes that Al-
lah will never give them any good. Allah is 
Aware of what lies in their souls. If I did, I would be one of the wrongdoers.”  
32. They said, “O Noah, you have argued with 
us, and argued a great deal. Now bring upon 
us what you threaten us with, if you are truth-
ful.”  
33. He said, “It is Allah who will bring it upon 
you, if He wills, and you will not be able to 
escape.”  
34. “My advice will not benefit you, much as I 
may want to advise you, if Allah desires to 
confound you. He is your Lord, and to Him 
you will be returned.”  
35. Or do they say, “He made it up?” Say, “If I 
made it up, upon me falls my crime, and I am innocent of the crimes you commit.”  
36. And it was revealed to Noah: “None of 
your people will believe, except those who 
have already believed, so do not grieve over  
what they do.”  
37. “And build the Ark, under Our eyes, and 
with Our inspiration, and do not address Me regarding those who did wrong; they are to 
be drowned.”  
38. As he was building the ark, whenever some 
of his people passed by him, they ridiculed 
him. H e said, “If you ridicule us, we will ridi-
cule you, just as you ridicule.”  
39. “You will surely know upon whom will 
come a torment that will abase him, and upon 
whom will fall a lasting torment.”  
40. Until, when Our command came, and the 
volcano erupted, We  said, “Board into it a 
pair of every kind, and your family —except 
those against whom the sentence has already 
been passed —and those who have believed.” 
But those who believed with him were only a 
few. 
41. He said, “Embark in it. In the name of Al-
lah shall  be its sailing and its anchorage. My 
Lord is indeed Forgiving and Merciful.”  
42. And so it sailed with them amidst waves 
like hills. And Noah called to his son, who 
had kept away, “O my son! Embark with us, 
and do not be with the disbelievers.”  
43. He sai d, “I will take refuge on a moun-
tain— it will protect me from the water.” He 
said, “There is no protection from Allah’s de-
cree today, except for him on whom He has 
mercy.” And the waves surged between them, 
and he was among the drowned.  
44. And it was said,  “O earth, swallow your wa-
ters,” and “O heaven, clear up.” And the wa-
ters receded, and the event was concluded, and it settled on Judi, and it was proclaimed: 
“Away with the wicked people.” 
45. And Noah called to his Lord. He said, “O 
My Lord, my son is of  my family, and Your 
promise is true, and You are the Wisest of the 
wise.”  
46. He said, “O Noah, he is not of your family. 
It is an unrighteous deed. So do not ask Me 
about something you know nothing about. I 
admonish you, lest you be one of the igno-
rant.”  
47. He said, “O My Lord, I seek refuge with 
You, from asking You about what I have no 
80 
