## 16.  THE BEE   (an-Nahl)  
10. It is He Who sends down for you from the 
sky water. From  it is drink, and with it grows 
vegetation for grazing.  
11. And He produces for you grains with it, 
and olives, and date -palms, and grapes, and 
all kinds of fruits. Surely in that is a sign for 
people who think.  
12. And He regulated for you the night and the 
day; and the sun, and the moon, and the stars 
are disposed by His command. Surely in that 
are signs for people who ponder.  
13. And whatsoever He created for you on 
earth is of diverse colors. Surely in that is a 
sign for people who are mindful.  
14. And  it is He who made the sea to serve you, 
that you may eat from it tender meat, and ex-
tract from it ornaments that you wear. And you see the ships plowing through it, as you 
seek His bounties, so that you may give 
thanks.  
15. And he cast mountains on the earth, lest it 
shifts with you; and rivers, and roads, so that 
you may be guided.  
16. And landmarks. And by the stars they 
guide themselves.  
17. Is He who creates like him who does not 
create? Will you not take a lesson?  
18. And if you tried to enumerate the  favors of 
Allah, you will not be able to count them. Al-
lah is Forgiving and Merciful.  
19. And Allah knows what you hide and what 
you disclose.  
20. Those they invoke besides Allah create 
nothing, but are themselves created.  
21. They are dead, not alive; and they do not 
know when they will be resurrected.  
22. Your God is one God. As for those who do 
not believe in the Hereafter, their hearts are 
in denial, and they are arrogant.  
23. Without a doubt, Allah knows what they 
conceal and what they reveal. He does  not 
like the arrogant.  24. And when it is said to them, “What has 
your Lord sent down?” They say, “Legends of 
the ancients.”  
25. So let them carry their loads complete on 
the Day of Resurrection, and some of the 
loads of those they misguided without 
knowl edge. Evil is what they carry.  
26. Those before them also schemed, but Allah 
took their structures from the foundations, 
and the roof caved in on them. The punish-
ment came at them from where they did not 
perceive.  
27. Then, on the Day of Resurrection, He w ill 
disgrace them, and say, “Where are My asso-
ciates for whose sake you used to dispute?” 
Those who were given knowledge will say, 
“Today shame and misery are upon the dis-
believers.”  
28. Those wronging their souls while the an-
gels are taking them away —they  will propose 
peace: “We did no wrong.” Yes you did. Allah is aware of what you used to do.”  
29. Enter the gates of Hell, to dwell therein for-
ever. Miserable is the residence of the arro-
gant.  
30. And it will be said to those who maintained 
piety, “What has  your Lord revealed?” They 
will say, “Goodness.” To those who do good 
in this world is goodness, and the Home of 
the Hereafter is even better. How wonderful 
is the residence of the pious.  
31. The Gardens of Perpetuity, which they will 
enter, beneath which rivers flow, where they 
will have whatever they desire. Thus Allah re-
wards the pious.  
32. Those who are in a wholesome state when 
the angels take them —will say, “Peace be 
upon you; enter Paradise, for what you used to do.”  
33. Are they but waiting for the angels to come 
to them, or for the command of your Lord to 
arrive? Those before them did likewise. Allah 
did not wrong them, but they used to wrong 
their own souls.  
97 
