## 16.  THE BEE   (an-Nahl)  
60. Those who do not believe in the Hereafter 
set a bad example,  while Allah sets the High-
est Example. He is the Mighty, the Wise.  
61. If Allah were to hold mankind for their in-
justices, He would not leave upon it a single 
creature, but He postpones them until an ap-
pointed time. Then, when their time arrives, 
they will  not delay it by one hour, nor will 
they advance it.  
62. And they attribute to Allah what they 
themselves dislike, while their tongues utter the lie that theirs is the goodness. Without a doubt, for them is the Fire, and they will be 
neglected.  
63. By Alla h, We sent messengers to commu-
nities before you, but Satan made their deeds appear alluring to them. He is their master 
today, and they will have a painful punish-
ment.  
64. We revealed to you the Scripture only to 
clarify for them what they differ about, an d 
guidance and mercy for people who believe.  
65. Allah sends down water from the sky, with 
which He revives the earth after its death. In 
this is a sign for people who listen.  
66. And there is a lesson for you in cattle: We 
give you a drink from their bell ies, from be-
tween waste and blood, pure milk, refreshing to the drinkers.  
67. And from the fruits of date -palms and 
grapevines, you derive sugar and wholesome 
food. In this is a sign for people who under-
stand.  
68. And your Lord inspired the bee: “Set up 
hives in the mountains, and in the trees, and 
in what they construct.”  
69. Then eat of all the fruits, and go along the 
pathways of your Lord, with precision. From 
their bellies emerges a fluid of diverse colors, 
containing healing for the people. Surely in 
this is a sign for people who reflect.  
70. Allah created you; then He takes you away. 
Some of you will be brought back to the worst age, so that he will no longer know anything, after having acquired knowledge. Allah is 
Omniscient and Omnipotent.  
71. Allah  has favored some of you over others 
in livelihood. Those who are favored would 
not give their properties to their servants, to 
the extent of making them partners in it. Will they then renounce Allah’s blessings?  
72. Allah has given you mates from among 
yourselves; and has produced for you, from 
your mates, children and grandchildren; and 
has provided you with good things. Will they 
then believe in falsehood, and refuse Allah’s 
favors?  
73. And yet they serve besides Allah what pos-
sesses no provisions for th em in the heavens, 
nor on earth, nor are they capable.  
74. So do not cite the examples for Allah. Allah 
knows, and you do not know.  
75. Allah cites the example of a bonded slave, 
who has no power over anything; and some-
one to whom We have given plentiful p rovi-
sion, from which he gives secretly and 
openly. Are they equal in comparison? All 
praise belongs to Allah, but most of them do 
not know.  
76. And Allah cites the example of two men: 
one of them dumb, unable to do anything, 
and is a burden on his master; whichever way 
he directs him, he achieves nothing good. Is 
he equal to him who commands justice, and 
is on a straight path?  
77. To Allah belongs the unseen of the heavens 
and the earth. The coming of the Hour is only 
as the twinkling of the eye, or even ne arer. Al-
lah has power over everything.  
78. Allah brought you out of your mothers’ 
wombs, not knowing anything; and He gave you the hearing, and the eyesight, and the 
brains; that you may give thanks.  
79. Have they not seen the birds, flying in the 
midst of  the sky? None sustains them except 
Allah. In this are signs for people who believe.  
80. And Allah has given you in your homes 
habitats for you, and has provided for you out 
of the hides of livestock portable homes for 
99 
