## 14.  ABRAHAM   (Ibrahim)  
27. Allah gives firmness to those who believe, 
with the firm word, in this life, and in the 
Hereafter. And Allah leads the wicked astray. 
Allah does whatever He wills.  
28. Have  you not seen those who exchanged 
the blessing of Allah with blasphemy, and 
landed their people into the house of perdi-
tion?  
29. Hell—they will roast in it. What a misera-
ble settlement.  
30. And they set up rivals to Allah, in order to 
lead away from His path. Say, “Enjoy your-selves; your destination is the Fire.”  
31. Tell My servants who have believed to per-
form the prayers, and to give from what We 
have given them, secretly and publicly, before 
a Day comes in which there is neither trading 
nor friendship.  
32. Allah is He Who created the heavens and 
the earth, and sends down water from the 
sky, and with it produces fruits for your sus-tenance. And He committed the ships to your 
service, sailing through the sea by His com-
mand, and He committed the rivers to yo ur 
service.  
33. And He committed the sun and the moon 
to your service, both continuously pursuing their courses, and He committed the night 
and the day to your service.  
34. And He has given you something of all 
what you asked. And if you were to count Al-
lah’s blessings, you would not be able to enu-
merate them. The human being is unfair and 
ungrateful.  
35. Recall that Abraham said, “O my Lord, 
make this land peaceful, and keep me and my 
sons from worshiping idols.”  
36. “My Lord, they have led many people 
astray. Whoever follows me belongs with me; 
and whoever disobeys me —You are Forgiv-
ing and Merciful.  
37. “Our Lord, I have settled some of my off-
spring in a valley of no vegetation, by Your 
Sacred House, our Lord, so that they may perform the prayers. So make the hearts of some people incline towards them, and pro-
vide them with fruits, that they may be thank-
ful.”  
38. “Our Lord, You know what we conceal and 
what we reveal. And nothing is hidden from 
Allah, on earth or in the heaven.”  
39. “Praise be to Allah, Who has given me, in 
my old age, Ishmael and Isaac. My Lord is the 
Hearer of Prayers.”  
40. “My Lord, make me one who performs the 
prayer, and from my offspring. Our Lord, ac-
cept my supplication.”  
41. “Our Lord, forgive me, and my parents, 
and the believers, o n the Day the Reckoning 
takes place.”  
42. Do not ever think that Allah is unaware of 
what the wrongdoers do. He only defers them 
until a Day when the sights stare.  
43. Their necks outstretched, their heads up-
raised, their gaze unblinking, their hearts 
void . 
44. And warn mankind of the Day when the 
punishment will come upon them, and the wicked will say, “Our Lord, defer us for a little 
while, and we will answer Your call and fol-
low the messengers.” Did you not swear be-
fore that there will be no passing away  for 
you?  
45. And you inhabited the homes of those who 
wronged themselves, and it became clear to you how We dealt with them, and We cited 
for you the examples.  
46. They planned their plans, but their plans 
are known to Allah, even if their plans can 
elimi nate mountains.  
47. Do not ever think that Allah will break His 
promise to His messengers. Allah is Strong, 
Able to Avenge.  
48. On the Day when the earth is changed into 
another earth, and the heavens, and they will 
emerge before Allah, the One, the Irresistible.  
49. On that Day, you will see the sinners bound 
together in chains.  
93 
