## 14.  ABRAHAM   (Ibrahim)  
7. And when your Lord proclaimed: “If you 
give thanks, I will grant you increase; but if 
you are ungrateful, My punishment is se-
vere.”  
8. And Moses said, “Even if you are ungrate-
ful, toge ther with everyone on earth —Allah is 
in no need, Worthy of Praise.”  
9. Has not the story reached you, of those be-
fore you, the people of Noah, and Aad, and 
Thamood —and those after them? None 
knows them except Allah. Their messengers 
came to them with the c lear proofs, but they 
tried to silence them, and said, “We reject 
what you are sent with, and we are in serious 
doubt regarding what you are calling us to.”  
10. Their messengers said, “Is there any doubt 
about Allah, Maker of the heavens and the 
earth? He calls you to forgive you your sins, 
and to defer you until a stated term.” They 
said, “You are only humans like us; you want 
to turn us away from what our ancestors wor-
shiped; so bring us a clear proof.”  
11. Their messengers said to them, “We are 
only huma ns like you, but Allah favors 
whomever He wills from among His servants. 
We cannot possibly show you any proof, ex-
cept by leave of Allah. In Allah let the faithful 
put their trust.”  
12. “And why should we not trust in Allah, 
when He has guided us in our ways? We will 
persevere in the face of your persecution. 
And upon Allah the reliant should rely.”  
13. Those who disbelieved said to their mes-
sengers, “We will expel you from our land, 
unless you return to our religion.” And their 
Lord inspired them: “We will  destroy the 
wrongdoers.”  
14. “And We will settle you in the land after 
them. That is for him who fears My Majesty, 
and fears My threats.”  
15. And they prayed for victory, and every 
stubborn tyrant came to disappointment.  
16. Beyond him lies Hell, and he w ill be given 
to drink putrid water.  17. He will guzzle it, but he will not swallow it. 
Death will come at him from every direction, 
but he will not die. And beyond this is relent-
less suffering.  
18. The likeness of those who disbelieve in 
their Lord: their works are like ashes, in a 
fierce wind, on a stormy day. They have no 
control over anything they have earned. That 
is the utmost misguidance.  
19. Do you not see that Allah created the heav-
ens and the earth with truth? If He wills, He 
can do away with you, and bring a new crea-
tion.  
20. And that is not difficult for Allah.  
21. They will emerge before Allah, altogether. 
The weak will say to those who were proud, “We were your followers, can you protect us at all against Allah’s punishment?” They will 
say, “Had  Allah guided us, we would have 
guided you. It is the same for us; whether we 
mourn, or are patient; there is no asylum for 
us.” 
22. And Satan will say, when the issue is set-
tled, “Allah has promised you the promise of 
truth, and I promised you, but I fail ed you. I 
had no authority over you, except that I called 
you, and you answered me. So do not blame 
me, but blame yourselves. I cannot come to 
your aid, nor can you come to my aid. I reject 
your associating with me in the past. The 
wrongdoers will have a t orment most pain-
ful.”  
23. But those who believed and did good deeds 
will be admitted into gardens beneath which 
rivers flow, to remain therein forever, by 
leave of their Lord. Their greeting therein will 
be: “Peace.”  
24. Do you not see how Allah presents a para-
ble? A good word is like a good tree —its root 
is firm, and its branches are in the sky.  
25. It yields its fruits every season by the will of 
its Lord. Allah presents the parables to the people, so that they may reflect.  
26. And the parable of a bad word is that of a 
bad tree —it is uprooted from the ground; it 
has no stability.  
92 
