## 14.  ABRAHAM   (Ibrahim)  
they fall near their homes, until Allah’s 
promise comes true. Allah never breaks a 
promise.  
32. Messengers before you were ridiculed, but 
I granted the disbelievers respite, and then I 
seized them. What a punishment it was!  
33. Is He who is watchful over the deeds of 
every soul? Yet they ascribe associates to Al-
lah. Say, “Name them! Or are you informing Him of something on earth He does not 
know, or is it a show of words?” In fact, the 
scheming of those who disbelieve is made to 
appear good to them, and th ey are averted 
from the path. Whomever Allah misguides 
has no guide.  
34. There is for them torment in the worldly 
life, but the torment of the Hereafter is 
harsher. And they have no defender against 
Allah.  
35. The likeness of the Garden promised to the 
righteous: rivers flowing beneath it; its food 
is perpetual, and so is its shade. Such is the 
sequel for those who guard against evil, but 
the sequel of the disbelievers is the Fire.  
36. Those to whom We gave the Scripture re-
joice in what was revealed to you , while some 
factions reject parts of it. Say, “I am com-
manded to worship Allah, and to never asso-
ciate anything with Him. To Him I invite, 
and to Him is my return.”  
37. Thus We revealed it an Arabic code of law. 
Were you to follow their desires, after the  
knowledge that has come to you, you would have neither ally nor defender against Allah.  
38. We sent messengers before you, and We 
assigned for them wives and offspring. No 
messenger could bring a sign except with the 
permission of Allah. For every era is a scrip-
ture.  
39. Allah abolishes whatever He wills, and He 
affirms. With Him is the source of the Scrip-
ture.  
40. Whether We show you some of what We 
have promised them, or We cause you to 
die— your duty is to inform, and Ours is the 
reckoning.  41. Do they n ot see how We deal with the 
earth, diminishing it at its edges? Allah 
judges; and nothing can hold back His judg-
ment. And He is quick to settle accounts.  
42. Those before them planned, but the entire 
plan is up to Allah. He knows what every soul 
earns. Tho se who disbelieve will know to 
whom the Ultimate Home is.  
43. Those who disbelieve say, “You are not a 
messenger.” Say, “Allah is a sufficient witness 
between me and you, and whoever has 
knowledge of the Scripture.”  
  
14. ABRAHAM 
(Ibrahim ) 
In the name of Allah,  
the Gracious, the Merciful  
1. Alif, Lam, Ra. A Scripture that We revealed 
to you, that you may bring humanity from 
darkness to light —with the permission of 
their Lord —to the path of the Almighty, the 
Praiseworthy.  
2. Allah —to whom belongs what is in  the 
heavens and the earth. And woe to the disbe-lievers from a severe torment.  
3. Those who prefer the present life to the 
Hereafter, and repel from the path of Allah, and seek to make it crooked —these are far 
astray.  
4. We never sent any messenger except in the 
language of his people, to make things clear for them. Allah leads astray whom He wills, 
and guides whom He wills. He is the Mighty, 
the Wise.  
5. We sent Moses with Our signs: “Bring your 
people out of darkness into light, and remind 
them of the Day s of Allah.” In that are signs 
for every patient and thankful person.”  
6. Moses said to his people, “Remember Al-
lah’s blessings upon you, as He delivered you from the people of Pharaoh, who inflicted on 
you terrible suffering, slaughtering your sons 
while sparing your daughters. In that was a 
serious trial from your Lord.”  
91 
