## 2.  THE HEIFER   (al-Baqarah)  
157. Upon these are blessings and mercy from 
their Lord. These are the guided ones.  
158. Safa and Marwa are among the rites of Al-
lah. Whoever makes the Pilgrimage to the 
House, or performs the Umrah, commits no 
error by circulating between them. Whoever 
volunteers good —Allah is Appreciative and 
Cognizant.  
159. Those who suppress the proofs and the 
guidance We have revealed, after We have clarified them to humanity in the Scripture —
those —Allah curses them, and the cursers 
curse them.  
160. Except those who repent, and reform, and 
proclaim. Those —I will accept their repent-
ance. I am the Acceptor of Repentance, the 
Merciful.  
161. But as for those who reject faith, and die 
rejecting —those —upon them is the curse of 
Allah, and of the angels,  and of all humanity.  
162. They will remain under it forever, and the 
torment will not be lightened for them, and 
they will not be reprieved.  
163. Your God is one God. There is no god but 
He, the Benevolent, the Compassionate.  
164. In the creation of the heavens and the 
earth; in the alternation of night and day; in 
the ships that sail the oceans for the benefit of 
mankind; in the water that Allah sends down 
from the sky, and revives the earth with it af-
ter it had died, and scatters in it all kinds of 
creat ures; in the changing of the winds, and 
the clouds disposed between the sky and the earth; are signs for people who understand.  
165. Yet among the people are those who take 
other than Allah as equals to Him. They love 
them as the love of Allah. But those w ho be-
lieve have greater love for Allah. If only the wrongdoers would realize, when they see the 
torment; that all power is Allah’s, and that Al-
lah is severe in punishment.  
166. Those who were followed will then disown 
those who followed them, and they will  see 
the retribution, and ties between them will be severed.  167. Those who followed will say, “If only we 
can have another chance, we will disown 
them, as they disowned us.” Thus Allah will 
show them their deeds, as regrets to them, 
and they will not come  out of the Fire.  
168. O people! Eat of what is lawful and good 
on earth, and do not follow the footsteps of Satan. He is to you an open enemy.  
169. He commands you to do evil and vice, and 
to say about Allah what you do not know.  
170. And when it is said to them, “Follow what 
Allah has revealed,” they say, “We will follow 
what we found our ancestors following.” Even if their ancestors understood nothing, 
and were not guided?  
171. The parable of those who disbelieve is that 
of someone who calls upon someone  who 
hears nothing except screaming and yelling. 
Deaf, dumb, and blind —they do not under-
stand.  
172. O you who believe! Eat of the good things 
We have provided for you, and give thanks to 
Allah, if it is Him that you serve.  
173. He has forbidden you carrion, and blood, 
and the flesh of swine, and what was dedi-cated to other than Allah. But if anyone is 
compelled, without desiring or exceeding, he 
commits no sin. Allah is Forgiving and Mer-
ciful.  
174. Those who conceal what Allah revealed in 
the Book, and exchange it for a small price —
those swallow nothing but fire into their bel-
lies. And Allah will not speak to them on the 
Day of Resurrection, nor will He purify them, 
and they will have a painful punishment.  
175. It is they who exchange guidance for error, 
and forgiveness for punishment. But why do 
they insist on the Fire?  
176. That is because Allah has revealed the 
Book in truth; and those who differ about the 
Book are in deep discord.  
177. Righteousness does not consist of turning 
your faces towards the East  and the West. But 
righteous is he who believes in Allah, and the 
Last Day, and the angels, and the Scripture, 
9 
