## 13.  THUNDER   (ar-Ra’d)  
may reach his mouth, but it does not reach it. 
The prayers  of the unbelievers are only in 
vain.  
15. To Allah prostrates everyone in the heav-
ens and the earth, willingly or unwillingly, as do their shadows, in the morning and in the 
evening.  
16. Say, “Who is the Lord of the heavens and 
the earth?” Say, “Allah.” Sa y, “Have you taken 
besides Him protectors, who have no power 
to profit or harm even themselves?” Say, “Are 
the blind and the seeing equal? Or are dark-
ness and light equal? Or have they assigned to 
Allah associates, who created the likes of His 
creation, so  that the creations seemed to 
them alike? Say, “Allah is the Creator of all 
things, and He is The One, the Irresistible.”  
17. He sends down water from the sky, and riv-
erbeds flow according to their capacity. The current carries swelling froth. And from what 
they heat in fire of ornaments or utensils 
comes a similar froth. Thus Allah exemplifies 
truth and falsehood. As for the froth, it is 
swept away, but what benefits the people re-
mains in the ground. Thus Allah presents the 
analogies.  
18. For those who respond to their Lord is the 
best. But as for those who do not respond to 
Him, even if they possessed everything on earth, and twice as much, they could not re-
deem themselves with it. Those will have the 
worst reckoning; and their home is Hell —a 
miserable destination.  
19. Is he who knows that what was revealed to 
your from your Lord is the truth, like him who is blind? Only those who reason will re-
member.  
20. Those who fulfill the promise to Allah, and 
do not violate the agreement.  
21. And those who join w hat Allah has com-
manded to be joined, and fear their Lord, and 
dread the dire reckoning.   
22. And those who patiently seek the presence 
of their Lord, and pray regularly, and spend 
from Our provisions to them, secretly and openly, and repel evil with good.  These will 
have the Ultimate Home.  
23. Everlasting Gardens, which they will enter, 
along with the righteous among their par-
ents, and their spouses, and their descend-
ants. And the angels will enter upon them from every gate.  
24. “Peace be upon you, because  you endured 
patiently. How excellent is the Final Home.”  
25. As for those who violate the promise to Al-
lah, after pledging to keep it, and sever what 
Allah has commanded to be joined, and 
spread corruption on earth —these, the curse 
will be upon them, and they will have the Worst Home.  
26. Allah dispenses the provisions to whom-
ever He wills, and restricts. And they delight 
in the worldly life; yet the worldly life, com-pared to the Hereafter, is only enjoyment.  
27. Those who disbelieve say, “If only a miracl e 
was sent down to him from his Lord.” Say, 
“Allah leads astray whomever He wills, and 
He guides to Himself whoever repents.”  
28. Those who believe, and whose hearts find 
comfort in the remembrance of Allah. Surely, 
it is in the remembrance of Allah that h earts 
find comfort.”  
29. For those who believe and do righteous 
deeds —for them is happiness and a beautiful 
return.  
30. Thus We sent you among a community be-
fore which other communities have passed 
away, that you may recite to them what We revealed to you.  Yet they deny the Benevolent 
One. Say, “He is my Lord; there is no god but He; in Him I trust, and to Him is my repent-
ance.”  
31. Even if there were a Quran, by which 
mountains could be set in motion, or by 
which the earth could be shattered, or by which the dead could be made to speak. In 
fact, every decision rests with Allah. Did the 
believers not give up and realize that had Al-
lah willed, He would have guided all human-
ity? Disasters will continue to strike those 
who disbelieve, because of their deeds, or  
90 
