## 16.  THE BEE   (an-Nahl)  
34. So the evils of their deeds assailed them, 
and what they used to ridicule engulfed them . 
35. The idolaters say, “Had Allah willed, we 
would not have worshiped anything besides 
Him, neither us, nor our ancestors, nor 
would we have prohibited anything besides 
His prohibitions.” Those before them did 
likewise. Are the messengers responsible for  
anything but clear communication?  
36. To every community We sent a messenger: 
“Worship Allah, and avoid idolatry.” Some of them Allah guided, while others deserved misguidance. So travel through the earth, and 
see what the fate of the deniers was.  
37. Even though you may be concerned about 
their guidance, Allah does not guide those 
who misguide. And they will have no saviors.  
38. And they swear by Allah with their most 
solemn oaths, “Allah will not resurrect any-
one who dies.” Yes indeed, it is a promise binding on Him, but most people do not 
know.  
39. To clarify for them what they differed 
about, and for the faithless to know that they 
were liars.  
40. When We intend for something to happen, 
We say to it, “Be,” and it becomes.  
41. Those who emigrate for Alla h’s sake after 
being persecuted, We will settle them in a 
good place in this world; but the reward of 
the Hereafter is greater, if they only knew.  
42. Those who endure patiently, and in their 
Lord they put their trust.  
43. We did not send before you except  men 
whom We inspired. So ask the people of knowledge, if you do not know.  
44. With the clarifications and the scriptures. 
And We revealed to you the Reminder, that you may clarify to the people what was re-
vealed to them, and that they may reflect.  
45. Do those who scheme evils feel secure that 
Allah will not cause the earth to cave in with 
them, or that the punishment will not come 
upon them from where they do not perceive?  46. Or that He will not seize them during their 
activities? And they will not be ab le to pre-
vent it.  
47. Or that He will not seize them while in 
dread? Your Lord is Gentle and Merciful.  
48. Have they not observed what Allah has cre-
ated? Their shadows revolve from the right 
and the left, bowing to Allah as they shrink 
away.  
49. To Allah b ows down everything in the 
heavens and everything on earth —every liv-
ing creature, and the angels, and without be-ing proud.  
50. They fear their Lord above them, and they 
do what they are commanded.  
51. Allah has said: “Do not take two gods; He 
is only One G od; so fear only Me.”  
52. To Him belongs everything in the heavens 
and the earth; and to Him obedience is due 
always. Do you, then, fear anyone other than 
Allah?  
53. Whatever blessing you have is from Allah. 
And when harm touches you, it is to Him that 
you groan.  
54. But when He lifts the harm from you, some 
of you associate others with their Lord.  
55. To show ingratitude for what We have 
given them. Enjoy yourselves. You will soon know.  
56. And they allocate, to something they do 
not know, a share of what We have provided 
for them. By Allah, you will be questioned 
about what you have been inventing.  
57. And they attribute to Allah daughters —ex-
alted is He —and for themselves what they de-
sire. 
58. And when one of them is given news of a 
female infant, his face  darkens, and he chokes 
with grief.  
59. He hides from the people because of the 
bad news given to him. Shall he keep it in hu-
miliation, or bury it in the dust? Evil is the 
decision they make.  
98 
